Title: Let it Cook: Learning to Wait in Sequential Decision Making

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.11511v1

Published Time: Thu, 13 Aug 2026 00:17:26 GMT

Number of Pages: 25

Markdown Content:
# Let it Cook: Learning to Wait in Sequential Decision Making 

Christopher Watson, Arjun Krishna, Dinesh Jayaraman, Rajeev Alur 

{ccwatson,arjk,dineshj,alur}@seas.upenn.edu 

Department of Computer and Information Science, University of Pennsylvania, USA 

Abstract 

In sequential decision making, an agent typically observes its environment and acts at every timestep. However, such active participation may not always be necessary; tasks such as brewing coffee include periods that are served equally well by letting the environment evolve without constant monitoring and control. During such periods, the agent could simply wait to conserve its resources, or redirect its attention to another task. We capitalize on these opportunities by training a “waiting policy” that decides where and how long to wait . This involves forgoing sensing to commit to a wait action, representing a deliberate pause for a set number of timesteps. We formalize “learning to wait” as minimizing the frequency of sensing and decision making without sacrificing task performance (e.g., the total amount of time to complete a task). To train a waiting policy, we propose an approach that employs reinforcement learning with lexicographically ordered objectives. In experiments across 4 discrete-state household tasks and 3 continuous-state environments, we show that our approach successfully learns waiting behaviors, and can adapt pre-trained policies to wait where appropriate. While different tasks permit different amounts of waiting without sacrificing task performance, our approach consistently finds solutions with significant waiting, sometimes waiting for over 50% of the task duration. 

1 Introduction 

The prevailing paradigm in sequential decision making treats agents as active, closed-loop systems that continually monitor and react to their environment. This approach assumes that making meaningful progress towards a goal requires constant engagement from the agent—resulting in active utilization of its sensory, computational, and motor resources. However, many real-world tasks inherently possess passive dynamics that can be exploited to achieve goals more efficiently (Todorov, 2009). Consider the mundane but complex choreography of a busy kitchen: a kettle takes time to boil, a soup takes time to cook, and a coffee machine operates independently once set to brew. In each of these scenarios, the most effective action for a human, or a robot, is to simply wait. An agent that identifies where and how long to wait can switch to a timed “standby mode” to conserve cognitive and motor resources, or alternatively redirect these resources to an auxiliary task. Given the benefits of strategically waiting, the key questions that arise are: How would one (1) formalize the objective of waiting? and (2) develop learning approaches that train an agent to optimize this waiting objective? For each environment, we define a distinguished wait action, e.g., standing still while coffee brews, or holding the paddle still in the video game of Pong . Then "waiting" is simply the act of committing to perform this wait action for multiple consecutive timesteps. We aim to discover and exploit opportunities where the agent can wait for an extended period. While our approach is technically agnostic to the effect the wait action has on the environment, we limit our experiments to settings where “waiting” corresponds to letting the environment evolve according to an intuitive notion of passive dynamics, as in the aforementioned examples. 1arXiv:2608.11511v1 [cs.LG] 11 Aug 2026 Learning to wait balances two potentially competing objectives: maximizing task performance and min-imizing the number of times the agent has to sense and respond to the environment (which corresponds to maximizing the amount of time the agent spends waiting). We consider agents that strictly prioritize task per-formance (measured by cumulative reward from a Markovian environment) and only seek to maximize wait-ing when doing so does not degrade task performance. Formally, this preference transforms the problem into a multi-objective optimization problem with a lexicographic ordering: the agent seeks to find max[ J0,J 1],where the cumulative task reward J0 is represents expected task performance and cumulative waiting reward 

J1 =−D decreases with the number of times D the agent is called upon to sense and make a decision (to ei-ther wait or act). For us, waiting periods involve no sensing, no computation, and no task-oriented behavior. Minimizing D thus combines two desiderata: (1) reducing sensing and decision computation, and (2) reduc-ing the need for the agent’s active interventions. In a multi-tasking setting, waiting may correspond to periods during which the agent could redirect its resources towards another task. More generally, waiting periods permit switching to a timed “standby mode” that conserves sensory, computational, and motor resources. To exploit our objective’s structure, we apply a lexicographic Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learn-ing (MORL) algorithm across several discrete- and continuous-state environments. The amount of waiting possible depends on the environment; in some environments, our method yields policies that wait (in some environments, for over 50% of the task duration) without sacrificing task performance compared to a vanilla RL, non-waiting baseline. We further compare our method against a standard MORL technique that uses scalarized rewards to explore the Pareto frontier between task performance and increased waiting, mediated by a reward-weighting scalarization coefficent. Under a strict preference for task performance, our lexicographic MORL approach achieves near-identical task and waiting performance to the scalarized approach, without needing a hyperparameter sweep to discover the best reward-weighting coefficient for each environment. We also show that our approach can be used to wrap a pretrained policy to add waiting behavior without sacrificing task performance. Finally, we demonstrate how learned waiting behavior may enable policy interleaving in a multi-task scenario. 

2 Waiting in Sequential Decision Making 

We define a waiting Markov Decision Process (WMDP) to be a tuple M=( S,A,wait ,W,P,R,μ ) where S

is the (discrete or continuous) set of states, A is the (discrete) set of primitive actions, wait ∈A is the distin-guished wait action, W ⊆ N+ is the (finite) set of waiting durations, P(st+1 |st,a t) is the probability of tran-sitioning from st to st+1 upon taking primitive action at, R:S ×A×S → R is the reward function, and μ is the initial state distribution. What differentiates a WMDP from a standard Markov decision process is the dis-tinguished wait action and the set W of waiting durations. Each natural number w ∈W characterizes a wait-ing macro-action that corresponds to waiting for w consecutive timesteps—that is, forgoing sensing and exe-cuting the primitive wait action for w consecutive timesteps. 1 We will denote the duration-w waiting macro-action by its natural number w. We do not make any special requirements of the dynamics P under the wait 

action, however in applications we will choose the wait action in a way that corresponds to a natural notion of non-intervention (e.g. standing idly while soup boils on the stove, or not moving the paddle in a game of 

Pong ). We aim to learn policies that can commit to “wait” for an extended period, as illustrated in Figure 1. t=25 t=24 t=26 t=27 t=28 t=29 t=30 t=31  

> turn-left take-soup
> wait-5

Figure 1: In our Cook environment, the agent commits to a duration-5 waiting macro-action near the end of the soup cooking process. No sensing, computation, or active motion occurs while waiting.     

> 1Awaiting macro-action is a special kind of semi-Markov option in the terminology of Sutton et al. (1999).

2The wait action and set of waiting durations W let us define the notion of a waiting policy 

π :S → ∆( A∪W ) that interacts with the WMDP to receive both task rewards and waiting rewards .2

When queried at a state s, the waiting policy yields either a primitive action a∈A , which has its usual effect according to the dynamics P, or a waiting macro-action w ∈W . A WMDP M=( S,A,wait ,W,P,R,μ ),a waiting policy π :S → ∆( A∪W ), and a finite time horizon H ∈N induce a distribution over length-H

trajectories s0a0r01r11s1 ...a H−1r0 

> H

r1 

> H

sH generated by drawing an initial state s0 ∼ μ and querying the policy π at timestep 0 to obtain either a waiting macro-action or a primitive action. At each timestep t, if the policy is queried and yields a waiting macro-action w then the next w actions at,a t+1 ,...,a t+w−1 are each the waiting action wait and the policy is not queried again until timestep t+w. If instead the the queried policy yields a primitive action a∈A then at =a and the policy is queried at the next timestep t+1 . For each timestep 1≤t≤H, the state st is sampled as st∼P (·| st−1,a t−1) and the task reward r0 

> t

is defined as 

r0 

> t

=R(st−1,a t−1,s t), which matches the usual notion of reward in an MDP. The waiting reward r1 

> t

is −1

if the policy is queried at timestep t and 0 otherwise. When the maximum episode horizon H is reached, the episode is abruptly terminated, regardless of whether the agent is in the middle of a waiting macro-action. Given a trajectory τ = s0a0r01r11s1 ... a H−1r0 

> H

r1 

> H

sH we define the (undiscounted) cumulative task reward to be J0(τ) = P 

> 1≤i≤H

r0 

> i

. We define the (undiscounted) cumulative waiting reward to be 

J1(τ)= P 

> 1≤i≤H

r1 

> i

, i.e., −1 times the number of times the policy π is queried during the trajectory. 

Lexicographic waiting objective. Intuitively, a good waiting policy is one that obtains good task perfor-mance (as measured by cumulative task reward) while also waiting as much as possible. Since we consider trajectories with an a priori fixed horizon H in which the only extended-duration actions are the waiting macro-actions , querying the waiting policy fewer times corresponds to more waiting. Given a WMDP M

and a finite time horizon H, we define the vector-valued objective of a waiting policy π as J(π)∈R2 as: 

J(π)= Eτ∼M ,π [J0(τ),J 1(τ)] (1) We adopt the standard lexicographic ordering ≤ over objective values defined such that 

[J0, J 1] ≤ [J0′, J 1′] ⇔ J0 < J 0′ OR (J0 = J0′ AND J1 ≤ J1′). In other words, a policy is “bet-ter” than another policy if and only if it either (1) achieves higher cumulative task reward J0, or (2) it achieves equal J0 and higher cumulative waiting reward J1. In the following section we will describe our RL-based approach that seeks to learn a policy π∗ that achieves maximal J(π∗).Our choice of waiting objective—to minimize expected number of times the waiting policy is queried—is a natural fit for settings where active decision making incurs a computational or sensory cost. This idea was explored by Zhou et al. (2024), which uses scalar rewards that include an interaction cost to encourage action repetition, and Harb et al. (2018), which uses the analogous deliberation cost to reduce the number of times a high-level policy is queried in hierarchical reinforcement learning. In the aforementioned works, the magnitude of the (interaction or deliberation) cost implicitly defines a tradeoff between task performance and policy query frequency. In contrast, our lexicographic objective (1) renders the relative magnitudes of the task rewards and the waiting rewards inconsequential. In other words, if we were to define WMDP trajectories such that each r1 

> t

were scaled by an arbitrary positive factor, the objective in (1) would induce the same ordering over optimal policies and our LQ-Learning learning algorithm (Algorithm 1, which we introduce in Section 3.1) would behave similarly. Practically, this alleviates the need to perform a hyperparameter sweep to find an appropriate weighting of task reward vs. waiting reward. Another important distinguishing characteristic of our formalization is that the only way to avoid querying the policy is by selecting the temporally extended waiting macro-actions. Thus, our objective naturally encourages the agent to pick those actions. Further, since “wait” actions in our settings cede control to the environment’s passive dynamics, more waiting translates to conserving not only sensing and computation, but also motor resources. Penalizing all decisions, including the choice to commit to waiting, encourages the agent to take longer duration waiting actions when possible. Preferring long contiguous durations of waiting can enable downstream multitasking applications where a long waiting period provides more time for the agent to “fill in” the waiting period by executing an auxiliary policy to make progress towards another task; we explore a simple instantiation of this idea in the context of the Coffee task in Section 4.        

> 2For a measurable space X, we write ∆( X)to denote the set of probability measures over X.

33 Learning to Wait 

3.1 Lexicographic Q-Learning 

Our goal, to maximize the vector-valued objective (1), lends itself naturally to a lexicographic MORL approach (Gábor et al., 1998; Skalse et al., 2022) that seeks a policy that maximizes a vector-valued reward signal. We adapt the lexicographic version of Q-Learning described by Skalse et al. (2022) to handle waiting macro-actions. Our resulting LQ-Learning algorithm, which we detail in Algorithm 1, maintains two Q-estimates: the task Q-estimate Q0 and waiting Q-estimate Q1. Each Q-estimate considers the “full action set” 

A∪W , which contains both primitive actions and waiting macro-actions. Greedy policy inference selects an action that is σ-close to optimal with respect to Q0’s future cumulative task reward estimate, breaking ties according to Q1’s future cumulative waiting reward estimate, where σ ∈ R+ is a small tolerance parameter that softens the lexicographic comparison. The tolerance parameter prevents a slightly inaccurate empirical Q0 estimate from erroneously ruling out the lexicographically optimal action during the Q1

update in Algorithm 1 of Algorithm 1. We only update the Q estimates in response to the output (an element of A∪W ) made by the policy when the policy is queried. We do not perform updates based on the primitive 

wait actions applied in the middle of a waiting macro-action, because these do not directly correspond to decisions made by the policy. This is analogous to how Sutton et al. (1999) defines SMDP Q-Learning .

Algorithm 1: LQ-Learning 

Input: WMDP M=( S,A,wait ,W,P,R,μ ), episode horizon H, learning rate α, lexicographic tolerance σ, initial Q tables Q0,Q 1 ∈R|S|×|A∪W| . 

> 1

for each episode do  

> 2

t←0,s ←M .reset()  

> 3

while t<H do  

> 4

u←

(

Lex-Argmax (s,Q 0,Q 1,σ ) w.p. 1−ϵ

Uniform( A∪W ) w.p. ϵ // epsilon-greedy exploration  

> 5

if u∈W then // Waiting macro-action  

> 6

G0 ←0 // Task reward during macro-action  

> 7

for u times do // Take u primitive wait steps  

> 8

s′,r 0 ←M .step (wait ) 

> 9

G0 ←G0 +r0 

> 10

else // Primitive action  

> 11

s′,r 0 ←M .step (u) 

> 12

G0 ←r0 

> 13

G1 ←− 1 // Waiting reward: -1 per policy query // Update Q estimates  

> 14

Q0[s,u ]←(1 −α)Q0[s,u ]+ α



G0 +max v∈A∪W Q0[s′,v ]

 

> 15

Q1[s,u ]←(1 −α)Q1[s,u ]+ α



G1 +Q1[s′,Lex-Argmax (s′,Q 0,Q 1,σ )] 

 

> 16

s←s′,t ←t+1  

> 17

Function Lex-Argmax (s,Q 0,Q 1,σ ): 

> 18

U ←

n

u∈A∪W Q0[s,u ]≥max u′∈A∪W Q0[s,u ′]−σ

o 

> 19

return argmax u∈U Q1[s,u ]

3.2 Learning A Waiting Wrapper For a Pretrained Policy 

Thus far, we have focused on training a policy from scratch . In some settings, there may already exist a policy πbase : S → ∆( A) that achieves satisfactory cumulative (task) reward in a non-waiting MDP environment. Such a policy may be handwritten, or trained via e.g. imitation learning or RL. Direct 4deployment of πbase in a WMDP 3 would garner expected cumulative task reward J0(πbase ) equal to expected cumulative reward in a non-waiting MDP, but extremely low cumulative waiting reward. We will now describe how to train a waiting policy that serves as a wrapper around πbase . This approach enjoys efficient exploration because the wrapper policy has a small set of possible actions: either execute 

πbase to evolve the system under its controlled dynamics, or wait and let it evolve passively. Given a WMDP M = ( S,A,wait ,P,R,μ ) and a base policy πbase : S → ∆( A) we define the induced two-action WMDP M′ = ( S,{abase ,wait },P′,R,μ ) where abase /∈ A is a new primitive action that “simulates” πbase . The dynamics are defined such that ∀s,s ′ ∈S P′(s′ |s, wait )= P(s′ |s, wait ) P′(s′ |s,a base )= X

> a∈A

(P(s′ |s,a )πbase (a|s)) 

A waiting policy π :S → ∆( {abase ,wait }∪W ) can choose to simulate πbase by taking action abase or wait. Learning a waiting wrapper around a pre-trained policy πbase may be useful in several settings. When train-ing waiting policies from scratch requires extensive environmental interaction then taking advantage of an existing base policy πbase (trained without waiting considerations) may significantly reduce the amount of environmental interaction needed to obtain a policy that achieves satisfactory value of Equation (1). For ex-ample, in domains where large pre-trained policies exist, such as in robotic manipulation, (e.g. Octo Model Team et al. (2024); Brohan et al. (2023); Black et al. (2026); NVIDIA et al. (2025)) it may be unnecessary to train a policy from scratch. Using the method described in this section, we may exploit the pre-trained base policy’s task performance while also exploring its waiting affordances for improved sensory, computational, and motor resource efficiency during task execution. Of course, it is possible that there exists no wrapper waiting policy π with expected objective value that exceeds J(s7 →δabase ). In our experimental results, we observed non-trivial waiting behaviors even when the base policy πbase was trained through standard RL (with no additional care to make it robust in states that may be reached via extended-duration waiting). 

4 Experiments 

We compare the effectiveness of our LQ-Learning approach (Section 3.1) and a scalarized reward baseline (which we will describe in Section 4.2), both in the context of learning a waiting policy from scratch and wrapping a pre-existing policy to wait as much as possible without sacrificing expected cumulative task reward. Finally, we show a case study of how learning to wait can be used as a first step toward interleaving policies to complete multiple tasks efficiently. 

4.1 Environments 

Each of our environments (with the exception of CartPole ) is a goal-reaching environment: we consider the task reward to be −1 per timestep, which encourages the agent to reach the goal as fast as possible. We also include early episode termination if the agent reaches the goal before the a priori 

episode horizon is reached. While our choice of task reward allows us to visualize cumulative task reward and the number of timesteps in which the policy is queried (i.e., zero minus the cumulative waiting reward) on a single set of axes, we note that our approach also applies to settings where cumulative task reward does not enjoy any special correlation to a number of elapsed timesteps. Our environments are described below, with additional details in Section A. In all of our environments the agent observes the complete state of the environment; in the cooking and coffee preparation tasks this includes the amount of timesteps remaining for a soup to finish cooking, the coffee machine to finish heating, or the coffee to finish brewing. 

Cook. We study three variations of a cooking task in the overcooked-ai (Carroll et al., 2019), which simulates the popular video game Overcooked (Ghost Town Games, 2016) in which the agent must cook and serve dishes. In our Cook environment the agent must gather and place 3 onions in the pot, which starts an 18 timestep countdown until the soup is cooked and ready. The agent must also pick up a dish, use the dish to pick up the soup, and then deliver the soup to the goal location. In CookLonger the          

> 3Deploying πbase :S→ ∆( A)in a WMDP with actions Aand wait durations Wassumes the tacit lift to πbase :S → ∆( A∪W ).

5soup takes 36 timesteps to cook, and in CookTwice , the agent must cook and deliver two soups, each of which takes 18 timesteps to cook. The wait action makes the agent stand still and we consider W ={5,15 }.

Coffee. We implement a Coffee brewing task in a deterministic 2D MiniGrid gridworld (Chevalier-Boisvert et al., 2023). The agent must go to the coffee machine and toggle it to start it heating. After an 8 timestep countdown the agent must toggle the machine again to start coffee brewing, which triggers an 18 timestep countdown, after which the agent must toggle the coffee machine again to collect the coffee. In addition to the multi-phase interaction with the coffee machine, the agent must go to and toggle the cream and sugar to pick them up. The episode terminates (success) when the coffee, cream, and sugar are collected (in any order). The wait action makes the agent stand still and we consider W ={5,15 }.

Pong. Our Pong environment is a modified version of the Atari game Pong, rewritten with inspiration from the Gymnax (Lange, 2022) implementation. The agent plays against a scripted opponent, and its objec-tive is to win one point as quickly as possible. If the ego agent loses a point, the episode does not terminate but the ball restarts in the middle of the arena. The agent observes a continuous-valued low-dimensional vec-tor observation comprising each paddle’s position, the ball’s current and last timestep positions, and the ball’s current velocity. The wait action does not move the paddle and we consider W ={2,4,8,16 ,32 ,64 ,128 }.

MountainCar. We adopt Gymnasium’s (Towers et al., 2024) MountainCar , in which a car must climb up from a valley to reach the top of a mountain as fast as possible. This is only possible by gradually building up momentum over multiple back-and-forth passes. Unlike our other environments, even small amounts of waiting hinder task performance. The agent observes the car’s position and velocity. The wait action applies zero force to the car (which may still roll freely) and we consider 

W ={2,4,6,8,10 ,12 ,14 ,16 ,18 ,20 }.

Cartpole. We adapt Gymnasium’s (Towers et al., 2024) Cartpole environment. We add an additional primitive action wait to standard CartPole’s 2-action set (“left” and “right”). Unlike our other environments, the goal is to balance the pole as long as possible, to the maximum horizon H =200 ; we use a task reward of +1 per timestep. The agent observes the cart’s position and velocity, and the pole’s angle and angular velocity. We consider W ={2,4,6,8,10 ,12 ,14 ,16 ,18 ,20 }.

4.2 Scalar reward baseline 

A simpler alternative to LQ-Learning uses a coefficient λ to scalarize each task reward r0 and waiting reward r1 into a combined reward r0 +λr 1. To train a policy that optimizes Equation (1), one must perform a hyperparameter sweep over values of λ in each new environment. Our LQ-Learning approach does not require such hyperparameter tuning, however lexicographic MORL approaches (such as LQ-Learning) require specific policy architectures and algorithms (e.g. those presented in Skalse et al. (2022)) that are less mature than scalar-reward RL approaches. For a scalarization coefficient λ ∈ R≥0 we define the λ-scalarized expected cumulative reward of a policy (for a fixed waiting MDP and horizon) to be 

Jλ(π)= J0(π)+ λJ 1(π) In order to train a policy that optimizes Jλ we apply the non-lexicographic version of the SMDP Q-Learning algorithm (Sutton et al., 1999) defined similarly to our LQ-Learning (Section 3.1) except there is only one Q-estimate and the (scalarized) reward at timestep t is rt =r0 

> t

+λr 1 

> t

. When λ=0 

we recover the original task reward’s objective that does not incentivize waiting. When λ is extremely large, there will always be an optimal policy that waits as much as possible, regardless of the task rewards. 

4.3 Implementation details 

We apply LQ-Learning and Q-Learning with scalar rewards to the discrete Cook , CookTwice ,

CookLonger and Coffee tasks. We apply their deep RL analogs LDQN (details in Section B.1) and DQN (Mnih et al., 2015) to the continuous-state environments. We adapt the Q-Learning and DQN implementations found in SKRL (Serrano-Muñoz et al., 2023) to LQ-Learning and LDQN following Skalse et al. (2022). Our DQN-based experiments use Q-networks that are MLPs with ReLU activations and 2 hidden 256 neurons per layer. Further hyperparameter details can be found in Section B. 6For the scalar reward baseline, we sweep over the λ values 0,0.01 ,0.1,0.5,1,5,10 ,15 . We report the result of the best λ value with respect to Equation (1), additional results are found in Section C.1. 

4.4 Results To what extent can an agent wait? We first study the extent to which an agent can wait without sacrificing task performance across our suite of tasks. We apply our LQ-Learning/LDQN approach (Section 3.1). Our comparison in Figure 3 shows that LQ-Learning and LDQN consistently yield policies that achieve high cumulative task reward (close to that obtained by vanilla RL that maximizes cumulative task reward as its sole objective without the option to wait), so a quick summary of the waiting affordances of the task exploited by our approach is possible through Figure 2, which plots the proportion of episode timesteps spent in different duration waiting macro-action by our LQ-Learning and LDQN policies. Intuitively, Cook and Coffee (visualized in Figure 3) would present opportunities for the agent to wait (e.g. during the time that soup takes to cook or coffee takes to brew) without sacrificing task performance (here, time to goal). Indeed, in Cook the learned policy chooses the duration 5 wait action twice during the 33 timesteps taken to fetch ingredients, cook, and serve the soup. At first it seems counterintuitive that the agent does not take the duration 15 waiting action given that the soup takes 18 

timesteps to cook, however our LQ-Learning-learned policy is in fact optimal with respect to Equation (1). Close inspection of the learned policy’s behavior reveals that our LQ-Learning approach discovers a policy that fetches the dish during the time the soup is cooking: this permits optimal cumulative task reward, and an optimal value of Equation (1), yet precludes the opportunity to wait for 15 uninterrupted timesteps. 4

Similarly, in Coffee , LQ-Learning learns a clever policy that achieves a higher value of Equation (1) than possible by naively waiting: the learned policy fetches sugar as the coffee brews. Training a waiting wrapper policy around a pre-existing policy (Section 3.2) can expose different opportunities to wait without sacrificing task reward than when learning a waiting policy from scratch. We see this when we train a waiting wrapper policy to wrap a (suboptimal) handwritten policy in our tabular environments: Our naive handwritten Cook base policy stands idly by as the soup cooks; our wrapper waiting policy trained via LQ-Learning successfully learns to take the duration-15 wait during this idle period. Similarly, our wrapper waiting policy for Coffee performs a duration-5 and a duration-15 wait as the machine heats and brews, respectively. In our continuous-state environments, we wrap a policy trained using vanilla DQN. Surprisingly, even these natural RL-trained afford the ability to exercise waiting behaviors. For example, our learned waiting wrapper policies for Pong and Cartpole 

preserve the DQN-trained base policy’s perfect cumulative task reward while spending well over half of the timesteps committed to waiting. This suggests that learning to wait, conveniently applied as a wrapper 

over pre-trained policies, could query the base policy more selectively without reducing task performance. Relative Waiting Durations 

Figure 2: Empirical performance averaged over 1000 trajectories from the best trained policy of 10 random training seeds using LQ-Learning or LDQN. The bar segments show the proportion of timesteps spent waiting vs. actively engaging with the environment. Bar heights are normalized; the numbers within each segment denote the absolute number of timesteps and the number at the top denotes absolute episode length.  

> 4Any policy that performs a duration-15 waiting macro action would take at least 37 timesteps to complete Cook .

78 timesteps to heat up, 18 timesteps to brew 

> Coffee
> Cook
> soup takes 18 timesteps to cook
> Learning from Scratch: Lexicographic vs. Scalarized

Figure 3: ( Left ) Environment visualizations. In our Coffee interleaving case study, the duration-15 wait taken while coffee brews permits us to interleave a “fetch sugar” policy that follows the dashed green path. ( Right ) Empirical mean episode length (height of bar) and number of decisions made (height of green bar segment) of our approach (“Lex” denotes LQ-Learning for discrete environments, LDQN for others) and the best scalarized approach from our sweep over λ values. Episode length is negative cumulative task reward for most environments; for CartPole episode length is cumulative task reward. We also include results from vanilla RL (Q-Learning for discrete environments, DQN for others) that is trained on task reward without the option to wait. Within each environment, heights are normalized with respect to the vanilla RL baseline. Labels denote absolute numbers of timesteps. Error bars represents 

± 1 standard deviation, computed over 10 random initial policy training seeds. 

LQ-Learning is a good way to learn waiting (compared to the scalar reward baseline). We now investigate the extent to which our LQ-Learning/LDQN approach accurately finds a policy that toes the fine line between increasing waiting and sacrificing task performance. Figure 3 visualizes episode duration (which directly reflects cumulative task reward) and number of decisions made (zero minus cumulative waiting reward) for three approaches for each task: (1.) Vanilla RL that maximizes task performance with no access to waiting options, (2.) Our LQ-Learning/LDQN approach, and (3.) The scalarized objective approach with the best (as determined by Equation (1)) weighting coefficient found in our sweep over 

λ values. A policy that maximizes Equation (1) should yield episode length approximately equal to that achieved by Vanilla RL, and should wait as much or more than the scalarized approach. Our LQ-Learning and LDQN policies in Figure 3 indeed approximate this expected behavior. 

Learning a waiting policy wrapper is sample efficient. We find it often takes fewer training steps to saturate the performance of a wrapper waiting policy than a waiting policy trained from scratch. For example, in Pong training a waiting wrapper policy via LDQN converges after ∼250 k training environment steps, while training a waiting policy from scratch with LDQN typically takes more than 600 k steps (Figure 4). This gain in sample efficiency may be due to (1) fewer actions being exposed to the wrapper policy and (2) a stark dichotomy between states from which the base policy can perform well vs. poorly, which means the waiting wrapper consistently receives low (relative to not waiting) future cumulative task reward when it waits inappropriately. Such a gain in sample efficiency need not exist in general, however learning curves in Section C show efficiency gains in each environment except MountainCar .

Waiting enables downstream interleaving. We now describe a simple form of policy interleaving as a downstream application of learning to wait. Recall from Figure 2 that our approach adapts a handwritten base policy that completes the Coffee task (by first turning on the coffee machine, then brewing coffee, then collecting sugar and cream) in 54 timesteps into a waiting policy that completes the task in the same amount of timesteps, but which commits to waiting. We now assume access to two additional handwritten policies, one for fetching sugar and another for fetching cream. Each of these auxiliary policies, when started from a location on the grid, brings the agent to collect its respective item, and returns to the grid position from which the auxiliary policy was invoked. We also assume access to accurate predictions of how long the auxiliary task will take to execute. 8Pong MountainCar 

> CartPole
> Train from Scratch vs. Wrap Pretrained Policy Learning Curves

Figure 4: (Left) Environment visualizations. (Right) Learning curve comparison for our LDQN applied to train a waiting policy for Pong from scratch vs. as a wrapper around a frozen pretrained policy. Each curve is the mean of 10 random policy training seeds, shaded regions denote 95% confidence interval. We then interleave as follows: if the waiting policy selects a duration-N wait, we check the time-to-completion estimates for each not-yet-completed auxiliary task and execute the longest-duration auxiliary task that can be completed in N timesteps. Our waiting wrapper policy’s duration-15 waiting gap is long enough to fetch the sugar; performing this interleaved behavior results allows the agent to complete 

Coffee in a total of 45 timesteps, matching the amount of time taken to complete the task by vanilla Q-Learning applied to learning how to maximize task performance from scratch (Figure 3). 

5 Related Work 

Cost of Agent Intervention. Prior research (Hansen et al., 1996; Heemels et al., 2012; Nagahara et al., 2016; Zhou et al., 2024; Krishna et al., 2025) demonstrates how imposing costs on sensing and intervention compel the agent to adopt open-loop strategies in which the agent commits to a sequence of actions without intermediate feedback, typically by relying on internal model of the environment until uncertainty neces-sitates sensing. Closest in spirit to our work is Zhou et al. (2024), in which the agent selects both an action and a number of times to repeat the action, although they do not explore how adjusting the magnitude of their scalar interaction cost trades off between task performance and policy query frequency. While we also encourage the agent to sense and deliberate infrequently, we focus on a stricter notion of non-intervention formalized by the distinguished wait action. Committing to taking the wait action, i.e., surrendering control to the system’s passive dynamics, is qualitatively different than committing to take a predetermined sequence of arbitrary actions because (1.) waiting may conserve motor resources (e.g. the energy needed to walk through a kitchen) and (2.) periods of waiting can be “filled in” with a policy that pursues an auxiliary goal, under appropriate conditions on the dynamics under the waiting action and the auxiliary goal policy. 

Temporal Abstractions. RL has long utilized temporal abstractions to improve efficiency in complex domains (Sutton et al., 1999; Pateria et al., 2021; Hutsebaut-Buysse et al., 2022). Grounded in bounded rationality (Simon, 1957), Harb et al. (2018) argue that agents should identify temporally extended options that effectively minimize the deliberation cost associated with option selection. This is similar in spirit to Equation (1). In particular, Harb et al. (2018) seek to limit the number of times a high-level policy over options may be queried and propose a scalarized objective based on the Lagrangian formulation (analogous to our scalarized RL baseline Section 4.2) of this constrained optimization problem. However, a drawback compared to our proposed approach based on lexicographic RL is the need for extensive hyperparameter sweeps to identify appropriate weighting of deliberation cost (which corresponds to the λ value of our scalar approach) relative to the cumulative task reward. Hierarchical RL with Timed Subgoals (Gürtler et al., 2021) introduces fine-grained temporal abstraction by letting a high-level policy call specify when each call to a low-level policy should terminate . This is similar in spirit to dynamically-determined action repeat (Lakshminarayanan et al., 2017; Sharma et al., 2017; Biedenkapp et al., 2021) where, in addition to choosing a primitive action, the agent chooses a number timesteps to repeat that primitive 9action. While these approaches reduce decision frequency in practice, their focus is reducing the amount of environmental interaction (sample complexity) needed to train a performant policy. This contrasts with our objective, which explicitly seeks to minimize the number of decisions the agent makes during deployment and privileges extended waiting as opposed to extended application of arbitrary primitive actions. 

Multi-objective RL. Multi-objective MDPs (MOMDPs) are often employed when a single scalar reward cannot capture the trade-offs between competing desiderata (Roijers et al., 2013; Hayes et al., 2022). While optimizing a scalarized objective can make use of standard RL techniques, the objective itself requires precise tuning of weights to navigate the Pareto front. In contrast, lexicographic approaches (Gábor et al., 1998; Skalse et al., 2022) allow for a strict prioritization of objectives, which is well-suited for our setting in which we wish to wait as much as possible without sacrificing expected cumulative task reward. This is closely related to the motivation of constrained policy optimization in safe RL (García & Fernández, 2015; Gu et al., 2024); however, rather than choose an a priori constraint on the minimal acceptable task performance the lexicographic approach allows the agent to adaptively discover what the best possible task performance and optimize waiting subject to this implicit constraint. 

6 Discussion 

Summary. In this paper we formulated learning to wait as maximizing Equation (1), which encourages the agent to spend long durations committed to apply the wait action without sensing, to the extent possible without sacrificing expected cumulative task reward. Lexicographic MORL allows the agent to discover the optimal expected cumulative task reward, alleviating the need for a human to perform hyperparameter sweeps over a reward weighting coefficient. We can thus train a policy, or a wrapper around an existing policy, that waits as much as possible without sacrificing task performance. Waiting inherently saves sensory, computational, and motor resources and may be a useful first step towards multi-task policy interleaving. 

Future work. Currently, our approach does not leverage the inherent structure of extended duration waiting. Future work could improve sample efficiency during training by e.g. fitting a single-step dynamics model to multi-timestep waiting experiences, taking inspiration from Zhou et al. (2024). Secondly, we only expect our techniques to work well in fully observed environments. If, for example, the agent’s observations did not differentiate when the soup in the Cook task was just starting to cook vs. when it was almost ready, the agent would not be able to learn appropriate waiting behavior. An exciting direction of future work would be to learn memoryful waiting policies. In many practical settings (e.g. cooking) the task-relevant latent dynamics are highly correlated with the passage of time; which may permit accurate deterministic belief updates. Finally, we presented only an initial proof-of-concept case study of policy interleaving. To truly expose opportunities to perform auxiliary tasks would require a stringent definition of what actions cause the aspects of the environment’s state that are relevant to the primary task to evolve as they would under the waiting action. Without such restrictions, the progress made towards the auxiliary task could impede the completion of the primary task. 

Acknowledgments 

This project was funded by NSF SLES 2331783, NSF CAREER 2239301, ONR N00014-22-1-2677, DARPA TIAMAT HR00112490421, and a gift from Amazon AWS to the ASSET center at Penn. 

References 

Andrew G. Barto, Richard S. Sutton, and Charles W. Anderson. Neuronlike adaptive elements that can solve difficult learning control problems. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics ,SMC-13(5):834–846, 1983. DOI: 10.1109/TSMC.1983.6313077. André Biedenkapp, Raghu Rajan, Frank Hutter, and Marius Lindauer. Temporl: Learning when to act. In Marina Meila and Tong Zhang (eds.), Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine Learning , volume 139 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research , pp. 914–924. PMLR, 18–24 Jul 2021. 10 Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak, Tim Jones, Liyiming Ke, Sergey Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, James Tanner, Quan Vuong, Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, and Ury Zhilinsky. π0: A vision-language-action flow model for general robot control, 2026. Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Xi Chen, Krzysztof Choromanski, Tianli Ding, Danny Driess, Avinava Dubey, Chelsea Finn, Pete Florence, Chuyuan Fu, Montse Gonzalez Arenas, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Kehang Han, Karol Hausman, Alexander Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Nikhil Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Isabel Leal, Lisa Lee, Tsang-Wei Edward Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Henryk Michalewski, Igor Mordatch, Karl Pertsch, Kanishka Rao, Krista Reymann, Michael Ryoo, Grecia Salazar, Pannag Sanketi, Pierre Sermanet, Jaspiar Singh, Anikait Singh, Radu Soricut, Huong Tran, Vincent Vanhoucke, Quan Vuong, Ayzaan Wahid, Stefan Welker, Paul Wohlhart, Jialin Wu, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Tianhe Yu, and Brianna Zitkovich. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge to robotic control, 2023. Micah Carroll, Rohin Shah, Mark K Ho, Tom Griffiths, Sanjit Seshia, Pieter Abbeel, and Anca Dragan. On the utility of learning about humans for human-ai coordination. In H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. d'Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 32. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019. Maxime Chevalier-Boisvert, Bolun Dai, Mark Towers, Rodrigo de Lazcano, Lucas Willems, Salem Lahlou, Suman Pal, Pablo Samuel Castro, and Jordan Terry. Minigrid & miniworld: Modular & customizable reinforcement learning environments for goal-oriented tasks. CoRR , abs/2306.13831, 2023. Zoltán Gábor, Zsolt Kalmár, and Csaba Szepesvári. Multi-criteria reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the Fifteenth International Conference on Machine Learning , ICML ’98, pp. 197–205, San Francisco, CA, USA, 1998. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc. ISBN 1558605568. Javier García and Fernando Fernández. A comprehensive survey on safe reinforcement learning. Journal of Machine Learning Research , 16(42):1437–1480, 2015. Ghost Town Games. Overcooked, 2016. Shangding Gu, Long Yang, Yali Du, Guang Chen, Florian Walter, Jun Wang, and Alois Knoll. A review of safe reinforcement learning: Methods, theories, and applications. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 46(12):11216–11235, 2024. DOI: 10.1109/TPAMI.2024.3457538. Nico Gürtler, Dieter Büchler, and Georg Martius. Hierarchical reinforcement learning with timed subgoals. In A. Beygelzimer, Y. Dauphin, P. Liang, and J. Wortman Vaughan (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 2021. Eric Hansen, Andrew Barto, and Shlomo Zilberstein. Reinforcement learning for mixed open-loop and closed-loop control. In M.C. Mozer, M. Jordan, and T. Petsche (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 9. MIT Press, 1996. Jean Harb, Pierre-Luc Bacon, Martin Klissarov, and Doina Precup. When waiting is not an option: Learning options with a deliberation cost. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence ,32(1), Apr. 2018. DOI: 10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11831. Conor F. Hayes, Roxana R˘ adulescu, Eugenio Bargiacchi, Johan Källström, Matthew Macfarlane, Mathieu Reymond, Timothy Verstraeten, Luisa M. Zintgraf, Richard Dazeley, Fredrik Heintz, Enda Howley, Athirai A. Irissappane, Patrick Mannion, Ann Nowé, Gabriel Ramos, Marcello Restelli, Peter Vamplew, and Diederik M. Roijers. A practical guide to multi-objective reinforcement learning and planning. Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems , 36(1), April 2022. ISSN 1387-2532. DOI: 10.1007/s10458-022-09552-y. 11 W.P.M.H. Heemels, K.H. Johansson, and P. Tabuada. An introduction to event-triggered and self-triggered control. In 2012 IEEE 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC) , pp. 3270–3285, 2012. DOI: 10.1109/CDC.2012.6425820. Matthias Hutsebaut-Buysse, Kevin Mets, and Steven Latré. Hierarchical reinforcement learning: A survey and open research challenges. Machine Learning and Knowledge Extraction , 4(1):172–221, 2022. ISSN 2504-4990. DOI: 10.3390/make4010009. Arjun Krishna, Edward S. Hu, and Dinesh Jayaraman. The value of sensory information to a robot. ICLR ,2025. Aravind S. Lakshminarayanan, Sahil Sharma, and Balaraman Ravindran. Dynamic action repetition for deep reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the Thirty-First AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , AAAI’17, pp. 2133–2139. AAAI Press, 2017. Robert Tjarko Lange. gymnax: A JAX-based reinforcement learning environment library, 2022. Marlos C. Machado, Marc G. Bellemare, Erik Talvitie, Joel Veness, Matthew Hausknecht, and Michael Bowling. Revisiting the arcade learning environment: Evaluation protocols and open problems for general agents (extended abstract). In Proceedings of the Twenty-Seventh International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-18 , pp. 5573–5577. International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization, 7 2018. DOI: 10.24963/ijcai.2018/787. Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A. Rusu, Joel Veness, Marc G. Bellemare, Alex Graves, Martin A. Riedmiller, Andreas Kirkeby Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, Stig Petersen, Charlie Beattie, Amir Sadik, Ioannis Antonoglou, Helen King, Dharshan Kumaran, Daan Wierstra, Shane Legg, and Demis Hassabis. Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning. Nature , 518:529–533, 2015. Andrew William Moore. Efficient memory-based learning for robot control. Technical report, University of Cambridge, 1990. Masaaki Nagahara, Daniel E. Quevedo, and Dragan Neši´ c. Maximum hands-off control: A paradigm of control effort minimization. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control , 61(3):735–747, 2016. DOI: 10.1109/TAC.2015.2452831. NVIDIA, Johan Bjorck, Nikita Cherniadev Fernando Castañeda, Xingye Da, Runyu Ding, Linxi "Jim" Fan, Yu Fang, Dieter Fox, Fengyuan Hu, Spencer Huang, Joel Jang, Zhenyu Jiang, Jan Kautz, Kaushil Kundalia, Lawrence Lao, Zhiqi Li, Zongyu Lin, Kevin Lin, Guilin Liu, Edith Llontop, Loic Magne, Ajay Mandlekar, Avnish Narayan, Soroush Nasiriany, Scott Reed, You Liang Tan, Guanzhi Wang, Zu Wang, Jing Wang, Qi Wang, Jiannan Xiang, Yuqi Xie, Yinzhen Xu, Zhenjia Xu, Seonghyeon Ye, Zhiding Yu, Ao Zhang, Hao Zhang, Yizhou Zhao, Ruijie Zheng, and Yuke Zhu. GR00T N1: An open foundation model for generalist humanoid robots. In ArXiv Preprint , March 2025. Octo Model Team, Dibya Ghosh, Homer Walke, Karl Pertsch, Kevin Black, Oier Mees, Sudeep Dasari, Joey Hejna, Charles Xu, Jianlan Luo, Tobias Kreiman, You Liang Tan, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Pannag Sanketi, Quan Vuong, Ted Xiao, Dorsa Sadigh, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Octo: An open-source generalist robot policy. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems , Delft, Netherlands, 2024. Shubham Pateria, Budhitama Subagdja, Ah-hwee Tan, and Chai Quek. Hierarchical reinforcement learning: A comprehensive survey. ACM Comput. Surv. , 54(5), jun 2021. ISSN 0360-0300. DOI: 10.1145/3453160. Antonin Raffin. Rl baselines3 zoo. https://github.com/DLR-RM/rl-baselines3-zoo ,2020. Diederik M. Roijers, Peter Vamplew, Shimon Whiteson, and Richard Dazeley. A survey of multi-objective sequential decision-making. J. Artif. Int. Res. , 48(1):67–113, October 2013. ISSN 1076-9757. 12 Antonio Serrano-Muñoz, Dimitrios Chrysostomou, Simon Bøgh, and Nestor Arana-Arexolaleiba. skrl: Modular and flexible library for reinforcement learning. Journal of Machine Learning Research , 24 (254):1–9, 2023. Sahil Sharma, Aravind S. Lakshminarayanan, and Balaraman Ravindran. Learning to repeat: Fine grained action repetition for deep reinforcement learning. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2017. Herbert Simon. A behavioral model of rational choice. Models of man, social and rational: Mathematical essays on rational human behavior in a social setting , 6(1):241–260, 1957. Joar Skalse, Lewis Hammond, Charlie Griffin, and Alessandro Abate. Lexicographic multi-objective reinforcement learning. In Lud De Raedt (ed.), Proceedings of the Thirty-First International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-22 , pp. 3430–3436. International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization, 7 2022. DOI: 10.24963/ijcai.2022/476. Main Track. Richard S. Sutton, Doina Precup, and Satinder Singh. Between mdps and semi-mdps: A framework for temporal abstraction in reinforcement learning. Artificial Intelligence , 112(1):181–211, 1999. ISSN 0004-3702. Emanuel Todorov. Efficient computation of optimal actions. Proceedings of the national academy of sciences , 106(28):11478–11483, 2009. Mark Towers, Ariel Kwiatkowski, Jordan Terry, John U Balis, Gianluca De Cola, Tristan Deleu, Manuel Goulão, Andreas Kallinteris, Markus Krimmel, Arjun KG, et al. Gymnasium: A standard interface for reinforcement learning environments. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.17032 , 2024. Helen Zhou, Audrey Huang, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, David Childers, and Zachary Lipton. Timing as an action: Learning when to observe and act. In International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics , pp. 3979–3987. PMLR, 2024. 13 Supplementary Materials 

The following content was not necessarily subject to peer review. 

A Additional Environment Details 

Cook. The Cook , CookLonger , and CookTwice , environments are implemented using Carroll et al. (2019). All three variants use the same kitchen layout shown in Figure 3. The environment has deterministic 2D grid dynamics: the agent has 6 actions available: go left, go right, go up, go down, stay= wait , or interact. Interact will pick up items (onion, bowl, finished soup) or put down the object the agent is holding. In Figure 1 we write “turn-left” to mean go left, and “take-soup” to mean interact. The agent’s discrete observation space includes the agent’s 2D position, orientation, whether the agent is holding an {onion, dish, ready soup, uncooked soup}, the pot phase (“empty”, “has some but not all ingredients”, “is cooking”, or “is done”), how many ingredients are in the pot, and the time remaining for a currently cooking soup to be done. The maximum episode horizon H is 200 for each variant. 

Coffee. The Coffee environment is a 2D gridworld implemented using Minigrid (Chevalier-Boisvert et al., 2023). The discrete state is defined by the agent’s position, orientation (north, south, east, or west), whether the sugar has been collected or not, whether the cream has been collected or not, the progress of the coffee machine towards heating up (not toggled yet, the number of timesteps remaining to heat, or that it is fully heated), the progress of the coffee machine towards brewing (not toggled yet, the number of timesteps remaining to brew, or that the coffee is brewed and ready to collect), and whether the coffee has been collected or not. The agent observes the complete state at each timestep. We use the standard set of 7 discrete actions available to a Minigrid agent but define custom behavior (indicated in parentheses where appropriate): “turn left”, “turn right”, “go forward”, “pickup” (no-op), “drop” (no-op), “toggle”, and “done”= wait (we redefine “done” to make the agent stay in place with no special effect on episode termination). The “toggle” action is used for all interactions with the world (starting coffee machine to warm up, starting coffee machine to brew, collecting coffee, collecting cream, collecting sugar). The maximum episode horizon is H =200 . A truly optimal policy completes Coffee in 41 timesteps, but none of our learning based approaches learned the optimal behavior during our allotted training duration (10m timesteps); our best policies need 45 timesteps. In our interleaving case study, the “fetch sugar” and “fetch cream” sub-policies are handwritten optimal policies that, when called for a particular agent position and orientation, make the agent go to the sugar (resp. cream) location, “toggle” to pick up the sugar (resp. cream), and return the agent to the position and orientation from which the subpolicy was called. It might seem counterintuitive that our simple scheduler does not choose to execute the “fetch cream” policy during the duration-5 wait that the wrapper waiting policy (wrapped around our handwritten policy for the entire Coffee task) executes while waiting for the coffee machine to heat up. This is because it would take more than 5 timesteps to collect the cream 

and return to the position and orientation from the start of the duration-5 wait. Overall task completion would be faster if the agent were able to fetch the cream while the coffee machine heats up; future work could explore more sophisticated forms of policy interleaving to enable such behavior. 

Pong. We adapt Gymnax’s (Lange, 2022) implementation of the well-known Pong environment. The agent’s primitive action space A comprises four actions: move_paddle_up move_paddle_down ,

wait (which leaves the paddle in place), and hit which leaves the paddle in place and returns the ball if contact would be made. We include the nonstandard hit action to make the connection between waiting and not actively affecting the environment thematically clear; our techniques would work equally well with standard pong dynamics. The goal is to score one point as fast as possible against a scripted opponent; the maximum episode horizon is H =1000 . Our Pong environment includes the standard “sticky actions” introduced by Machado et al. (2018) to introduce a small amount of stochasticity into transitions. This makes the environment very slightly non-Markovian with respect to the observations supplied to the agent. 14 CartPole. We adapt the standard CartPole-v0 (Barto et al., 1983) environment from Gymna-sium (Towers et al., 2024) to have an additional wait action that applies no force to the cart. Thus the action set is {“left”, “right”, wait }. The maximum episode horizon is H = 200 and the task reward is 

+1 for each step. We retain the typical termination logic from the original implementation. 

MountainCar. We use the standard MountainCar-v0 (Moore, 1990) environment implementation from Gymnasium. There are three primitive actions: “accelerate to the left”, “don’t accelerate”= wait , and “accelerate to the right.” The task reward is -1 per timestep and the maximum episode horizon is H =200 .

B Training Details 

During training, we terminate training episodes once the a priori episode horizon is reached or (in the case of goal-reaching tasks) when the goal is reached. For CartPole we inherit the usual termination behavior when the pole’s angle becomes excessively low. For each of Cook , CookLonger , CookTwice , and Coffee we train each policy for 10 million environment steps. For each of our continuous state tasks we train each policy for 1 million timesteps. When selecting the best model checkpoint of a training run, we use the environment’s cumulative reward (for LQ-Learning and LDQN we use the lexicographic ordering over the task and waiting rewards, for the other approaches we use the usual ordering over the (scalarized or vanilla) reward). We evaluate an intermediate checkpoint every 10k training environment steps, and evaluate 20 eval episodes (using greedy, not epsilon-greedy policy inference) to obtain an empirical estimate of the expected cumulative reward. We report the hyperparameters used for all experiments. Lexicographic Q-learning parameters are shown in Table 1, and lexicographic DQN parameters are shown in Table 2. DQN hyperparameters were adapted from the RL Baselines3 Zoo (Raffin, 2020) and manually tuned for each environment. 

B.1 Lexicographic RL Implementation 

We adapt the Q-Learning and DQN implementations from SKRL (Serrano-Muñoz et al., 2023) into the LQ-Learning and LDQN algorithms following Skalse et al. (2022). We also add support for durative macro-actions as described for the SMDP Q-Learning algorithm in Sutton et al. (1999). Durative macro-actions were not part of the standard MOMDP environments treated by Skalse et al. (2022) or the base implementation of SKRL. Our Q-Learning and LQ-Learning implementations do not make use of a replay buffer. Our DQN and LDQN implementations do use a replay buffer: we insert durative-action transitions into the replay buffer in the straightforward way, that is, we include the state from which the action was taken, the (durative) action, the state reached after finishing (or reaching episode termination) the durative action, and the cumulative reward accrued during the low-level transitions within the durative action. Table 1: LQ-Learning hyperparameters. 

Parameter Symbol Value 

Discount factor γ 1.0

Learning rate α 0.1

Exploration rate ε 0.05 

Lexicographic slack σ 0.001 

C Learning Curves 

We now present learning curves for the training runs reported in Figure 2 and Figure 3. Note that Figure 3 presents just the best (in terms Equation (1) for LQ-Learning and LDQN and in terms of scalarized 15 Table 2: Lexicographic DQN hyperparameters by environment. 

Parameter CartPole MountainCar Pong 

Network Architecture 

Hidden layers [256 ,256] [256 ,256] [256 ,256] 

Activation ReLU ReLU ReLU 

Core Hyperparameters 

Discount factor ( γ) 1.0 1.0 1.0

Learning rate ( α) 2×10 −3 4×10 −3 4×10 −4

Batch size 64 128 32 

Replay Buffer 

Buffer size 100 ,000 10 ,000 100 ,000 

Training Schedule 

Learning starts 1,000 1,000 1,000 

Gradient steps 128 8 1

Update interval 256 16 4

Target Network 

Update interval 10 600 1,000 

Polyak ( τ) 1.0 1.0 1.0

Exploration ( ε-greedy) 

Initial ε 1.0 1.0 1.0

Final ε 0.04 0.07 0.01 

Decay timesteps 8,000 24 ,000 100 ,000 

return for scalarized approaches) policy checkpoint, which may appear before the max number of training environment steps is reached. In the learning curves, the bold line shows the average of ten training seeds. The shaded region shows 1 standard deviation. For some environments, notably CookTwice , policy optimization is unstable, meaning that averaging performance across ten random seeds does not clearly reflect the performance of each individual seed’s policy. For all approaches, we provide learning curves for episode length (negative J0 for most environments; pos-itive J0 for CartPole ). This characterizes the cumulative task reward for our lexicographic MORL and the cumulative reward for vanilla RL. For all approaches except vanilla RL, we also include a curve for num-ber of decisions taken (negative J1). This characterizes the cumulative waiting reward for LQ-Learning and LDQN approaches. For the scalarized approaches we also include a learning curve for the scalarized return, which is always a linear combination of J0 and J1 weighted by the coefficient λ as described in Section 4.2. 16 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

050 100 150 200 

> Episode Length (0 - J )  Cook
> Lex Vanilla =0.01

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

50 100 150 200 

> Episode Length (0 - J )
> Cook Longer
> Lex Vanilla =0.1

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

50 100 150 200 

> Episode Length (0 - J )
> Cook Twice
> Lex Vanilla =0.1

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

50 100 150 200 

> Episode Length (0 - J )  Coffee
> Lex Vanilla =0

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

0250 500 750 1000 

> Episode Length (0 - J )  Pong
> Lex Vanilla =0

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

100 125 150 175 200 

> Episode Length (0 - J )
> Mountain Car
> Lex Vanilla =0.01

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

50 100 150 200 

> Episode Length (J )
> Cart Pole
> Lex Vanilla =0

Episode Length (0 - J ) Figure 5: Episode length vs. training timesteps for learning from scratch experiments (see Figure 3). Episode length equals negative cumulative task return for most environments and equals positive task return for CartPole . Each curve is the mean of 10 random policy training seeds; shaded regions show 

± 1 standard deviation. Each point along the curve is the empirical mean over 20 evaluation trajectories (with greedy policy inference); evaluation occurs once every 10,000 environment steps during training. 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

050 100 150 200 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Cook
> Lex Vanilla =0.01

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

50 100 150 200 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Cook Longer
> Lex Vanilla =0.1

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

50 100 150 200 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Cook Twice
> Lex Vanilla =0.1

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

50 100 150 200 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Coffee
> Lex Vanilla =0

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

0250 500 750 1000 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Pong
> Lex Vanilla =0

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

50 100 150 200 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Mountain Car
> Lex Vanilla =0.01

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

050 100 150 200 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Cart Pole
> Lex Vanilla =0

Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹) 

Figure 6: Decisions per episode vs. training timesteps for learning from scratch experiments (see Figure 3). Decisions per episode is negative cumulative waiting return for all environments. Each curve is the mean of 10 random policy training seeds; shaded regions show ± 1 standard deviation. Each point along the curve is the empirical mean over 20 evaluation trajectories (with greedy policy inference); evaluation occurs once every 10,000 environment steps during training. 17 Figure 7: Per-episode cumulative scalar reward vs. training timesteps for learning from scratch experiments (see Figure 3). Each curve is the mean of 10 random policy training seeds; shaded regions represents 

± 1 standard deviation. Each point along the curve is the empirical mean over 20 evaluation trajectories (with greedy policy inference); evaluation occurs once every 10,000 environment steps during training. We only report curves for the best scalarization coefficient λ, as described in Section 4. 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0                                      

> Training Timesteps 1e7
> 50 100 150 200
> Episode Length (0 - J )
> Cook
> Lex
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Training Timesteps 1e7
> 75 100 125 150 175 200 225
> Episode Length (0 - J )
> CookLonger
> Lex
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Training Timesteps 1e7
> 100 120 140 160 180 200 220
> Episode Length (0 - J )
> CookTwice
> Lex
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Training Timesteps 1e7
> 50 100 150 200
> Episode Length (0 - J )
> Coffee
> Lex
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Training Timesteps 1e6
> 0200 400 600 800 1000 1200
> Episode Length (0 - J )
> Pong
> Lex
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Training Timesteps 1e6
> 100 120 140 160 180 200
> Episode Length (0 - J )
> MountainCar
> Lex
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> Training Timesteps 1e6
> 50 100 150 200
> Episode Length (J )
> Cartpole
> Lex
> Episode Length (0 - J )

Figure 8: Episode length vs. training timesteps for learning from wrapper waiting policy experiments (see Figure 2). Episode length equals negative task return for most environments and equals positive task re-turn for CartPole . Each curve is the mean of 10 random policy training seeds; shaded regions represents 

± 1 standard deviation. Each point along the curve is the empirical mean over 20 evaluation trajectories (with greedy policy inference); evaluation occurs once every 10,000 environment steps during training. 18 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

30 35 40 45 50 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Cook
> Lex

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

20 30 40 50 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  CookLonger
> Lex

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

40 60 80 100 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  CookTwice
> Lex

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e7 

25 30 35 40 45 50 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Coffee
> Lex

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

0200 400 600 800 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Pong
> Lex

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

20 40 60 80 100 120 140 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  MountainCar
> Lex

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Training Timesteps 1e6 

050 100 150 

> Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹)  Cartpole
> Lex

Decisions Per Episode (0 - J¹) Figure 9: Decisions per episode vs. training timesteps for learning from wrapper waiting policy experiments (see Figure 2). Decisions per episode is negative waiting return for all environments. Each curve is the mean of 10 random policy training seeds; shaded regions represents ± 1 standard deviation. Each point along the curve is the empirical mean over 20 evaluation trajectories (with greedy policy inference); evaluation occurs once every 10,000 environment steps during training. 19 C.1 Extended Tabular results 

In the following results tables, we report the mean and standard deviation for all experiments performed. This includes scalarized training values of λ that do not appear in Figure 3. For some environments, we extended our sweep to additional values of λ. Unless otherwise specified, we report mean and standard deviation over 10 training runs. Our results for learning a waiting wrapper policy using scalarized rewards are reported over 5 training runs. Method Episode Length ( 0−J0) Policy Queries per Episode ( 0−J1)Scratch LQ-Learning 33.0 ± 0.0 25.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 0 33.0 ± 0.0 32.2 ± 1.687 Scratch scalar 0.01 33.0 ± 0.0 25.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 0.1 33.0 ± 0.0 25.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 0.5 33.0 ± 0.0 25.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 1 33.0 ± 0.0 25.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 5 37.0 ± 0.0 23.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 10 37.0 ± 0.0 23.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 15 37.0 ± 0.0 23.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 20 102.2 ± 84.173 19.4 ± 4.648 Scratch vanilla Q-Learning 33.0 ± 0.0 33.0 ± 0.0 Wrap LQ-Learning 53.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0 53.0 ± 0.0 53.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.01 53.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.1 53.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.5 53.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 1 53.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 5 56.0 ± 0.0 38.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 10 200.0 ± 0.0 14.2 ± 0.447 Wrap scalar 15 56.0 ± 0.0 38.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 20 200.0 ± 0.0 14.2 ± 0.447 Table 3: Cook results. “Wrap” refers to wrapping a base policy that is handwritten and which stands idly by as soup cooks. 20 Method Episode Length ( 0−J0) Policy Queries per Episode ( 0−J1)Scratch LQ-Learning 51.0 ± 0.0 33.8 ± 1.687 Scratch scalar 0 51.0 ± 0.0 48.2 ± 1.932 Scratch scalar 0.01 51.0 ± 0.0 34.4 ± 1.897 Scratch scalar 0.1 51.0 ± 0.0 33.4 ± 1.265 Scratch scalar 0.5 51.4 ± 0.966 31.2 ± 2.53 Scratch scalar 1 51.4 ± 0.966 29.8 ± 1.751 Scratch scalar 5 52.0 ± 0.0 24.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 10 52.0 ± 0.0 24.0 ± 0.0 Scratch scalar 15 111.2 ± 76.427 20.0 ± 5.164 Scratch vanilla Q-Learning 51.0 ± 0.0 51.0 ± 0.0 Wrap LQ-Learning 71.0 ± 0.0 40.2 ± 1.033 Wrap scalar 0 71.0 ± 0.0 71.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.01 71.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.1 71.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.5 71.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 1 71.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 5 71.0 ± 0.0 39.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 10 200.0 ± 0.0 14.2 ± 0.447 Wrap scalar 15 200.0 ± 0.0 14.0 ± 0.0 Table 4: CookLonger results. “Wrap” refers to wrapping a base policy that is handwritten and which stands idly by as soup cooks. Method Episode Length ( 0−J0) Policy Queries per Episode ( 0−J1)Scratch LQ-Learning 69.0 ± 0.0 64.2 ± 4.131 Scratch scalar 0 69.2 ± 0.632 68.4 ± 2.675 Scratch scalar 0.01 69.0 ± 0.0 65.0 ± 4.216 Scratch scalar 0.1 69.0 ± 0.0 64.2 ± 4.131 Scratch scalar 0.5 69.8 ± 1.033 61.0 ± 2.309 Scratch scalar 1 71.8 ± 3.676 57.4 ± 4.502 Scratch scalar 5 200.0 ± 0.0 15.1 ± 1.287 Scratch scalar 10 200.0 ± 0.0 15.7 ± 2.946 Scratch scalar 15 200.0 ± 0.0 14.5 ± 0.527 Scratch scalar 20 200.0 ± 0.0 14.5 ± 0.527 Scratch vanilla Q-Learning 69.0 ± 0.0 69.0 ± 0.0 Wrap LQ-Learning 109.0 ± 0.0 81.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0 109.0 ± 0.0 81.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.01 109.0 ± 0.0 81.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.1 109.0 ± 0.0 81.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.5 109.0 ± 0.0 81.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 1 200.0 ± 0.0 14.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 5 200.0 ± 0.0 14.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 10 200.0 ± 0.0 14.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 15 200.0 ± 0.0 14.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 20 200.0 ± 0.0 14.0 ± 0.0 Table 5: CookTwice results. “Wrap” refers to wrapping a base policy that is handwritten and which stands idly by as soup cooks. 21 Method Episode Length ( 0−J0) Policy Queries per Episode ( 0−J1)Scratch LQ-Learning 45.5 ± 0.707 45.1 ± 1.595 Scratch scalar 0 45.1 ± 0.568 44.7 ± 1.418 Scratch scalar 0.01 45.3 ± 0.823 44.5 ± 1.179 Scratch scalar 0.1 45.5 ± 0.972 45.1 ± 1.101 Scratch scalar 0.5 45.4 ± 0.843 41.0 ± 2.494 Scratch scalar 1 45.75 ± 1.165 40.5 ± 3.295 Scratch scalar 2 47.6 ± 2.797 38.0 ± 2.211 Scratch scalar 5 49.0 ± 3.162 36.429 ± 1.272 Scratch scalar 10 156.1 ± 70.699 21.1 ± 9.231 Scratch scalar 15 200.0 ± 0.0 14.4 ± 0.699 Scratch scalar 20 200.0 ± 0.0 14.2 ± 0.422 Scratch scalar 30 200.0 ± 0.0 14.8 ± 1.229 Scratch vanilla Q-Learning 44.8 ± 0.632 44.8 ± 0.632 Wrap LQ-Learning 54.0 ± 0.0 36.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0 54.0 ± 0.0 54.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.01 54.0 ± 0.0 36.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.1 54.0 ± 0.0 36.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 0.5 54.0 ± 0.0 36.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 1 54.0 ± 0.0 36.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 2 54.0 ± 0.0 36.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 5 57.0 ± 0.0 35.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 10 200.0 ± 0.0 14.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 15 200.0 ± 0.0 14.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 20 200.0 ± 0.0 14.4 ± 0.894 Wrap scalar 30 200.0 ± 0.0 14.2 ± 0.447 Table 6: Coffee Results. “Wrap” refers to wrapping a base policy that is handwritten and which stands idly by as the coffe machine heats and as coffee brews. 22 Method Episode Length ( 0−J0) Policy Queries per Episode ( 0−J1)Scratch LDQN 94.414 ± 1.091 46.898 ± 9.105 Scratch scalar 0 94.0 ± 0.0 83.929 ± 14.225 Scratch scalar 0.01 94.09 ± 0.242 45.146 ± 10.493 Scratch scalar 0.05 94.227 ± 0.254 45.606 ± 8.269 Scratch scalar 0.1 94.664 ± 1.523 44.793 ± 7.438 Scratch scalar 0.2 94.1 ± 0.217 46.874 ± 3.954 Scratch scalar 0.5 94.083 ± 0.224 33.915 ± 4.048 Scratch scalar 1 94.208 ± 0.368 26.525 ± 2.934 Scratch scalar 2 94.449 ± 0.508 22.517 ± 2.687 Scratch scalar 5 95.203 ± 1.67 22.515 ± 4.199 Scratch scalar 10 94.694 ± 1.309 25.176 ± 4.199 Scratch scalar 15 118.437 ± 30.631 25.326 ± 4.026 Scratch scalar 20 94.025 ± 0.06 24.42 ± 2.995 Scratch scalar 30 102.392 ± 22.485 27.073 ± 3.162 Scratch scalar 50 564.16 ± 459.882 15.403 ± 8.02 Scratch scalar 100 1000.0 ± 0.0 8.2 ± 0.632 Scratch vanilla DQN 94.0 ± 0.0 94.0 ± 0.0 Wrap LDQN 94.439 ± 0.415 30.499 ± 3.497 Wrap scalar 0 94.399 ± 0.231 91.586 ± 6.197 Wrap scalar 0.01 94.401 ± 0.286 32.373 ± 2.655 Wrap scalar 0.05 94.409 ± 0.344 29.72 ± 1.54 Wrap scalar 0.1 94.332 ± 0.477 29.733 ± 2.613 Wrap scalar 0.2 94.363 ± 0.329 27.433 ± 2.794 Wrap scalar 0.5 94.455 ± 0.286 23.748 ± 1.966 Wrap scalar 1 94.744 ± 0.271 21.842 ± 0.864 Wrap scalar 10 96.362 ± 2.502 20.559 ± 0.544 Wrap scalar 2 95.199 ± 1.779 20.469 ± 0.727 Wrap scalar 5 96.778 ± 1.526 20.264 ± 0.748 Wrap scalar 15 281.496 ± 401.745 30.734 ± 15.112 Wrap scalar 20 287.182 ± 399.216 21.642 ± 8.706 Wrap scalar 30 1000.0 ± 0.0 8.0 ± 0.0 Wrap scalar 50 1000.0 ± 0.0 8.4 ± 0.548 Wrap scalar 100 1000.0 ± 0.0 8.0 ± 0.0 Table 7: Pong results. “Wrap” refers to wrapping a base policy that is trained using vanilla DQN. 23 Method Episode Length (J0) Policy Queries per Episode ( 0−J1)Scratch LDQN 199.986 ± 0.042 99.76 ± 23.421 Scratch scalar 0 200.0 ± 0.0 180.72 ± 25.435 Scratch scalar 0.01 199.952 ± 0.106 83.298 ± 28.076 Scratch scalar 0.1 199.846 ± 0.487 81.455 ± 26.969 Scratch scalar 0.5 199.647 ± 1.116 66.388 ± 19.676 Scratch scalar 1 199.843 ± 0.345 64.69 ± 24.025 Scratch scalar 2 162.941 ± 71.322 49.522 ± 29.661 Scratch scalar 5 128.33 ± 66.645 23.113 ± 18.95 Scratch scalar 10 145.52 ± 55.1 21.197 ± 15.645 Scratch scalar 15 41.68 ± 1.042 2.535 ± 0.067 Scratch scalar 20 41.135 ± 0.37 2.498 ± 0.019 Scratch vanilla DQN 199.727 ± 0.542 199.727 ± 0.542 Wrap LDQN 199.973 ± 0.084 55.359 ± 11.093 Wrap scalar 0 200.0 ± 0.0 134.08 ± 36.439 Wrap scalar 0.01 199.824 ± 0.368 52.035 ± 7.038 Wrap scalar 0.1 200.0 ± 0.0 56.029 ± 7.818 Wrap scalar 0.5 199.959 ± 0.093 52.433 ± 11.197 Wrap scalar 1 200.0 ± 0.0 55.852 ± 7.065 Wrap scalar 2 197.424 ± 5.76 52.249 ± 5.758 Wrap scalar 5 199.087 ± 1.577 26.8 ± 4.069 Wrap scalar 10 174.452 ± 9.828 15.105 ± 1.088 Wrap scalar 15 41.347 ± 0.308 2.512 ± 0.018 Wrap scalar 20 41.409 ± 0.27 2.518 ± 0.03 Table 8: Cartpole Results. “Wrap” refers to wrapping a base policy that was trained using vanilla DQN. 24 Method Episode Length ( 0−J0) Policy Queries per Episode ( 0−J1)Scratch LDQN 103.577 ± 1.631 97.532 ± 4.436 Scalar 0 103.626 ± 3.505 98.212 ± 3.246 Scalar 0.01 102.601 ± 2.841 97.978 ± 2.771 Scalar 0.1 105.242 ± 3.447 96.311 ± 3.548 Scalar 0.5 107.898 ± 4.655 88.284 ± 4.549 Scalar 1 125.611 ± 27.028 78.364 ± 24.184 Scalar 2 200.0 ± 0.0 10.613 ± 1.627 Scalar 5 200.0 ± 0.0 10.101 ± 0.318 Scalar 10 200.0 ± 0.0 10.232 ± 0.518 Scalar 15 200.0 ± 0.0 10.054 ± 0.131 Scalar 20 200.0 ± 0.0 10.117 ± 0.343 Scratch vanilla DQN 102.791 ± 5.985 102.791 ± 5.985 Wrap LDQN 101.512 ± 2.908 95.693 ± 3.791 Wrap scalar 0 100.284 ± 0.314 95.194 ± 3.462 Wrap scalar 0.01 100.559 ± 0.782 94.772 ± 3.535 Wrap scalar 0.1 101.703 ± 1.28 93.395 ± 3.979 Wrap scalar 0.5 104.484 ± 4.043 90.104 ± 7.571 Wrap scalar 1 114.675 ± 21.038 85.823 ± 19.539 Wrap scalar 2 200.0 ± 0.0 10.395 ± 0.86 Wrap scalar 5 200.0 ± 0.0 10.033 ± 0.052 Wrap scalar 10 200.0 ± 0.0 10.011 ± 0.025 Wrap scalar 15 200.0 ± 0.0 10.044 ± 0.062 Wrap scalar 20 200.0 ± 0.0 10.013 ± 0.029 Wrap scalar 50 200.0 ± 0.0 10.0 ± 0.0 Table 9: Results for MountainCar environment. “Wrap” refers to wrapping a base policy that is trained using vanilla DQN. 25