Spine-Branch Coordination for Multi-agent
Computer Use
Mian Zhang1,2*, Manasi Sharma1, Sheng Zhang3, Minglai Yang1, Kejian Shi1, Ying Liu1, Zhiyu Zoey
Chen2, Daniel Yue Zhang1
1Scale AI, 2University of Texas at Dallas, 3Johns Hopkins University
Project website: mianzhang.github.io/spine-branch-computer-use
Abstract
Computer use agents (CUAs) are increasingly deployed as multi-agent systems that decompose a
task into multiple subtasks executed across parallel virtual machines (VMs). However, a critical
physical bottleneck is that the state of two VMs cannot be merged. Previous systems handle this
ad-hoc rather than treating it as a first-class concern. We propose Spine-Branch Coordination for
multi-agent computer use, a framework that decomposes a task into a "spine-branch" graph, where
the spine carries the main task flow with continuous VM state and branch tasks execute in parallel
to collect information the spine needs to complete the task. Branch VMs are discarded once their
tasks finish, so no VM merging ever occurs. Experiments show that on 200 long-horizon tasks from
Odysseys and across three CUA backbones, Spine-Branch improves success rate over the baseline
system by 6.0% to 16.5%, while reducing per-task cost by 34% to 70%, indicating that explicitly
modeling VM-state merging constraint enables multi-agent computer use to scale efficiently.
1 Introduction
Computer-use agents (CUAs) act on graphical user interfaces to complete tasks that may span websites,
applications, and files. Recent benchmarks increasingly emphasize long-horizon workflows that capture
the realism and complexity of real world tasks (Sun et al., 2026; Yuan et al., 2026; Jang et al., 2026a). A
single agent executes such workflows serially, producing long trajectories with growing context and
more opportunities for error. Multi-agent coordination provides a natural alternative: decompose the
task, assign subtasks to agents that execute independent work in parallel. This is well suited to systems
where intermediate results can be copied and gathered freely (Sun et al., 2025; Mao & Mirhoseini, 2026).
Coordinating multi-agent computer use is challenging because CUAs must handle two fundamentally
different kinds of information: extractable deliverables, such as text or a file, which can be copied freely,
and VM state, such as a logged-in session, a set of open tabs, or an application with unsaved edits. VM
state cannot be copied and merged as ordinary files: a new VM can start from a base image or clone one
existing VM, but no operation can combine the live states of two independently evolved VMs. Once
two VMs diverge, their processes, files, windows, sessions, and caches may all differ, which means that
a new VM can inherit VM state from only one existing VM. We call this constraint single-parent VM
∗Work done during an internship at Scale AI.
1
arXiv:2608.22077v1  [cs.CL]  22 Aug 2026


Scale AI Research















	





	




			




Figure 1. Spine-Branch Coordination. A task is decomposed into a role-typed dependency DAG. VM state is
continuous along the spine via VM cloning; artifacts flow freely between any dependent nodes. Branches commit
extractable artifacts on completion and their VMs are discarded after use.
inheritance. Existing multi-agent CUA systems either run the task in a single environment serially with
agents of different functional roles (Song et al., 2025; Agashe et al., 2025) or decompose and run the task
in parallel environments without considering single-parent VM inheritance (Koh et al., 2026); when
several stateful subtasks converge, the system must keep one VM, discard the others, reconstruct the lost
states, or revise the plan at runtime.
We introduce Spine-Branch Coordination (Figure 1), a new multi-agent framework for computer use that
makes single-parent VM inheritance an explicit planning constraint. In the framework, a decomposable
CUA task is represented as a spine-branch graph, where the spine is a sequence of subtasks connected by
VM cloning and carries the persistent state required by the main task flow. Other subtasks are branches.
They run in parallel on fresh VMs or clones of a spine VM, return extractable deliverables, and are
discarded after completion. Deliverables may flow through an arbitrary dependency graph, but VM
state follows one lineage. The resulting graph satisfies single-parent VM inheritance by construction and
never requires VM merging. This design preserves parallelism for information-gathering work while
serializing the heavy stateful operations in one environment. It also simplifies coordination. State passes
directly along the spine, artifacts pass directly between dependent nodes without relying on a manager
model for information transferring.
We evaluate Spine-Branch on 200 long-horizon CUA tasks from Odysseys (Jang et al., 2026a). Across
three CUA backbones spanning different capability levels, Spine-Branch consistently outperforms the
baseline system, improving success rate by 6.0% to 16.5% while reducing per-task financial cost by
34% to 70%. The gains are particularly pronounced on hard tasks, where Spine-Branch degrades less
sharply as task horizons increase and better realizes the potential of stronger CUA backbones. Our
analyses attribute these gains to two properties: Spine-Branch produces cleaner and more parallel task
decompositions, and it preserves expensive live VM state along the spine, avoiding the state loss and
costly reconstruction incurred by unconstrained coordination. Further experiments on OSWorld 2.0
(Yuan et al., 2026) show that multi-agent coordination is not usually worth the cost and we give practical
2


Scale AI Research
principles for decomposing GUI-based computer-use tasks.
2 Spine-Branch Coordination for Multi-agent Computer Use
Multi-agent Computer Use.
A computer use task T specifies a goal on a desktop GUI whose state
resides within a VM. A CUA is a policy π that maps screenshot histories to GUI actions (e.g., clicks,
keystrokes, and scrolls), executing inside the VM until termination. Multi-agent computer use brings
several CUAs to bear on a single goal: a task is first decomposed into multiple subtasks, some of which
run concurrently across separate VMs, and the intermediate results are then aggregated into the final
deliverables. A completed subtask can pass two kinds of information to the subtasks that depend on it,
distinguished by whether it can be separated from the VM that produced it:
• Extractable deliverables that can be lifted out of the VM as a self-contained object, such as a down-
loaded file, an exported dataset, or a textual answer, and that, once extracted, no longer depends on
the VM: the VM may be discarded.
• VM state that includes some target configuration, such as an authenticated session, the contents of
RAM, a set of open applications, a form filled and awaiting submission that cannot be lifted out: to
deliver it is to deliver the VM itself.
Single-parent VM Inheritance.
The two kinds of information behave very differently under composi-
tion, and this difference is what sets computer use apart from other multi-agent settings. An extractable
deliverable can be separated from the VM that produced it, so it is ordinary data: it can be copied to
many successors, broadcast, and concatenated. Fanning work out and gathering it back is trivial, exactly
as in text-based multi-agent systems, where every intermediate result is a message. In contrast, VM
state comes into being in only two ways: booted fresh from the base image, or cloned from the state
of one existing VM, capturing its disk, memory, running processes, and open sessions so that the new
machine resumes exactly where its parent left off (an operation we call init_from). Every mainstream
virtualization stack (VMware, KVM/QEMU, Hyper-V, Xen) works this way: a VMware clone and a
QEMU snapshot alike branch from a single source, and neither offers an operation that fuses two running
machines into one. Two divergent VMs are hard to be reconciled, as the state of a VM contains more
than process memory or disk blocks: it includes browser tabs, cookies, GUI windows, display buffers,
clipboard contents, filesystem mutations, terminal sessions, local services, network connections, and
application caches, which are data types hard to be merged (Shapiro et al., 2011). A subtask therefore
inherits VM state from at most one predecessor, never from two. We call this physical constraint as
single-parent VM inheritance.
2.1 Spine-Branch Coordination Framework
To enforce single-parent VM inheritance as a first-class physical constraint, we propose Spine-Branch
Coordination shown in Figure 1. The core design principle of Spine-Branch is: states that cannot be cheaply
rebuilt stay on a single continuous flow (Spine); everything reducible to a transferable artifact runs in parallel
(Branches). Spine-Branch represents a task T as the role-typed dependency DAG
G =
 V, Evm, Eart, ρ

,
V = W ∪{a},
(1)
where W denotes a set of CUA worker nodes and a denotes the aggregation node executed by a Manager;
edges Evm ⊆W × W (init_from) contains VM state dependencies and Eart ⊆W × V contains artifact
3


Scale AI Research
dependencies; ρ : W →{SPINE, BRANCH} assigns each worker its execution role. The union graph
(V, Evm ∪Eart) is acyclic and therefore admits a valid topological execution order.
The role map partitions the workers into a spine S = (s1 →· · · →sk) and a set of branches B = W \ S.
The spine is the unique retained path in Evm. Artifact edges, by contrast, may connect any pair of nodes,
irrespective of their roles. The graph satisfies
deg−
Evm(v) ≤1,
∀v ∈W,
deg+
Evm(b) = 0,
∀b ∈B,
deg+
Eart(b) ≥1,
∀b ∈B.
(2)
Here, deg−
E (v) and deg+
E (v) denote the in-degree and out-degree of node v within edge set E, respectively.
The first constraint enforces single-parent VM inheritance. The second prohibits VM state flow from a
branch to any successor because every branch VM is discarded after use. The third requires every branch
to externalize its result as an artifact consumed by other nodes.
Role Architecture.
The framework coordinates three specialized roles:
• Manager. The Manager is a pure reasoning LLM that does not execute GUI actions. During decompo-
sition, it constructs G, identifies the persistent operational pathway (the spine), assigns worker roles,
and wires state and artifact dependencies. During aggregation, it executes the terminal node a and
synthesizes the final response based on the VM of the last spine node and the collected artifacts.
• Spine Workers. Spine workers execute a sequence of nodes S = (s1 →· · ·→sk) with continuous VM
state. The spine head s1 starts from a fresh VM with necessary task setup, while each subsequent
worker si+1 initializes from the final VM state of si through init_from. Their responsibility is to pre-
serve and extend live state that is required downstream or costly to reconstruct, such as authenticated
sessions, open applications, and partially completed GUI workflows. The final VM of sk is retained to
satisfy stateful task requirements, such as leaving an application in its required final state.
• Branch Workers. Branch workers execute auxiliary subtasks whose outcomes can be externalized as
self-contained artifacts, encompassing information acquisition, analysis, transformation, validation,
and artifact construction. A branch worker starts from either a fresh VM or a clone of one spine VM
and, whenever its dependencies permit, runs in parallel with the spine and other ready branches. Upon
completion, it commits at least one extractable artifact, after which its disposable VM is discarded.
Communication Channels.
The framework separates communication according to whether informa-
tion can be externalized:
• Live-state Channel. An edge (u, v) ∈Evm initializes v from a clone of u’s final VM, preserving live
VM state such as active sessions, open applications, and in-progress workflows. Each node has at
most one such parent.
• Artifact Channel. An edge (u, v) ∈Eart transfers an extractable artifact from producer u directly to
consumer v. These edges may connect any nodes in the DAG, including the aggregation node, and
support unrestricted fan-in and fan-out.
4


Scale AI Research
Algorithm 1 Spine-Branch Coordination.
# Functions:
# state_parent(v): v's single VM parent, cloned via init_from.
# outputs_of(P, D): deliverables in D produced by nodes P.
# emits(v): whether v emits a deliverable.
# on_spine(v): whether v lies on the spine.
# budget_notice(t, M): step-budget notice appended at step t.
def spine_branch(T, K, M):
G = manager.plan(T)
D, pool = {}, Scheduler(max_cuas=K)
while not G.all_finished():
while pool.has_free_slot() and G.has_ready():
v = G.pop_ready()
if v.state_parent:
v.vm = clone(v.state_parent.vm)
else:
v.vm = fresh_vm()
v.inputs = outputs_of(v.parents, D)
pool.launch(v, step_budget=M, sbp=budget_notice)
v = pool.wait_any(); G.mark_finished(v)
if v.emits: D[v] = v.deliverable
if not v.on_spine: discard(v.vm)
return manager.aggregate(T, G.last_spine_node.vm, D)
This typed separation preserves one continuous VM lineage while allowing information to be composed
freely. It prevents VM-merge conflicts and state reconstruction without relying on the Manager as an
information relay for downstream workers.
Scheduling and Context Localization.
Workers are executed under a fixed capacity of K concurrent
CUAs. A worker becomes ready after all of its incoming dependencies have completed and is launched
whenever a slot is available. Branches can therefore overlap with the spine and with one another.
Wall-clock latency follows the critical path of G rather than the sum of all worker trajectories. Each
worker receives a localized instruction and only its required artifacts. This prevents the full screenshot
and action history of the task from accumulating in a single context, reducing interference from stale
observations during long-horizon execution (Liu et al., 2024).
Step-budget Prompting.
We integrate a step-budget notice into every worker’s execution loop to
ensure that planned artifacts are committed before budget exhaustion. For a worker with a hard limit of
M steps, let rt = t/M be the fraction used before step t. SBP selects
qt =





qefficiency,
0 ≤rt < 1
2,
qcommit,
1
2 ≤rt < 3
4,
qfinalize,
3
4 ≤rt < 1.
(3)
The three phases respectively discourage redundant actions, prioritize deliverable completion, and
require the immediate commitment of the best available result. SBP adds no agent, tool, or model
call; it operationalizes the artifact-emission constraint in Equation 2, particularly for branches whose
5


Scale AI Research
uncommitted progress would otherwise disappear with their VMs. The specific notices used are shown
in Appendix A.2. Algorithm 1 shows the pseudo-codes of Spine-Branch coordination.
3 Experiments
Benchmark and Evaluation.
We use Odysseys (Jang et al., 2026a) as the main testbed1, a benchmark
with 200 realistic multi-step workflows across three difficulty levels (easy, medium, hard). Each task is
scored by a set of binary rubric that final state or answer must satisfy, together with a verification, the
procedure of how a grader should determine whether it is accomplished. Each run is scored by a rubric
judge, gemini-3.1-flash-lite, which reads the final trajectory (up to 200 screenshots) and judges all of
a task’s rubrics in one pass. We report two metrics. Success Rate is the fraction of tasks on which every
rubric passes. Rubric Average is the per-task mean rubric pass fraction, averaged over tasks. We also
report the agent steps and token consumption taken per task.
System Settings.
Every agent acts inside an isolated desktop virtual machine. The agent perceives
the environment through screenshots and issues low-level GUI actions (click, type, scroll) or control
actions (wait, terminate, answer) (see Appendix C for the action space). We compare three coordination
strategies under identical backbones. Single-Agent runs one CUA over the whole task with no manager
and no decomposition. MACU (Koh et al., 2026) employs a manager model that decomposes the
task into a dependency graph of subtasks, spawns parallel CUA sub-agents to complete the task, and
aggregates their results. MACU relies on the manager model to dynamically replan the graph structure
at runtime based on the execution status of sub-agents or to transfer information between nodes. We
set the replanning budget to 5. The last is our Spine-Branch. Compared to MACU, Spine-Branch is
more decentralized: the manager model mainly handles initial graph planning (see Appendix A.1 for the
prompt) and final result aggregation after all subtasks complete, while information transfer between
nodes is fixed during the initial planning stage via either VM state inheritance or artifact flow. We use
claude-opus-4-8 as the manager model2, and for sub-agents we test three backbones: qwen3.7-plus
and qwen3.6-27B driven through a screenshot-to-pyautogui harness, and gpt-5.4-mini run through its
native computer-use interface. The Qwen CUA backbones follow their recommended thinking-mode
sampling (Bai et al., 2025), and gpt-5.4-mini runs at its fixed default temperature with reasoning effort
set to xhigh. Each CUA is given at a step budget to finish its task. For Single-Agent, the step budget is
100, while each CUA in the multi-agent methods is given 60. We use a maximum of 6 parallel CUAs.
Main Results.
Table 1 compares coordination strategies across sub-agent backbones with varying single-
agent computer use capabilities: Qwen3.6-27B (24.0% SR), gpt-5.4-mini (42.0% SR), and Qwen3.7-Plus
(55.0% SR). Overall, Spine-Branch consistently achieves the highest task quality while incurring
the lowest financial cost per task among multi-agent strategies, outperforming MACU by +6.0%
to +16.5% in Success Rate and +4.7% to +12.9% in Rubric Average, while cutting per-task financial
costs by 34% to 70% across all backbones (e.g., $0.44 vs. $1.46 on Qwen3.6-27B, $8.06 vs. $12.23 on
gpt-5.4-mini, and $2.87 vs. $5.75 on Qwen3.7-Plus). This better Pareto-optimal performance indicates
the effectiveness and efficiency of Spine-Branch. In addition, Spine-Branch drastically reduces reliance
on the manager agent. Across all backbones, Spine-Branch cuts manager token overhead by roughly
1We also evaluate on OSWorld 2.0 (Yuan et al., 2026), but find that most tasks do not benefit from decomposition. Please see
Section 4, “When Decomposition Is Not Worth the Cost,” for further discussion.
2See Appendix D for an ablation on the manager model.
6


Scale AI Research
Table 1. Main results on Odysseys. Each block fixes the sub-agent backbone and compares coordination strategies.
Best values among multi-agent methods (MACU, Spine-Branch) are in bold on the primary metrics. For Spine-
Branch we annotate the relative change vs. MACU in green. The standard variance are shown for three evaluation
runs.
Primary Metrics
Execution Stats (per task)
Method
Rubric Avg. ↑
Success
Rate ↑
Cost ($) ↓* Agent
Steps
CUA
Actions
Manager
Tok. (K)
CUA
Tok. (M)
Qwen3.6-27B
Single-Agent
46.7 ±1.08
24.0 ±0.76
0.00
67
92
–
2.5
MACU
53.9 ±0.83
28.5 ±0.76
1.46
187
250
492
5.9
Spine-Branch 66.6 ±2.72
44.0 ±1.32
0.44
198
334
106
6.7
∆vs. MACU
+12.8
+15.5
−1.02
-
-
-
-
gpt-5.4-mini
Single-Agent
58.0 ±0.14
42.0 ±0.58
2.00
38
83
–
2.6
MACU
70.6 ±2.12
58.5 ±1.26
12.23
192
371
653
13.2
Spine-Branch 75.3 ±3.80
64.5 ±3.01
8.06
142
274
115
9.6
∆vs. MACU
+4.7
+6.0
−4.17
-
-
-
-
Qwen3.7-Plus
Single-Agent
74.0 ±0.75
55.0 ±2.52
1.20
74
111
–
2.9
MACU
73.2 ±2.83
50.5 ±2.29
5.75
254
448
721
8.8
Spine-Branch 86.0 ±2.01
67.0 ±1.61
2.87
170
273
138
5.6
∆vs. MACU
+12.9
+16.5
−2.88
-
-
-
-
*Cost per task is calculated by accumulating input and output tokens based on model API rates: claude-opus-4-8: $5.00/$25.00 (per 1M
in/out tokens); gpt-5.4-mini: $0.75/$4.50; qwen3.7-plus: $0.40/$1.60; local Qwen3.6-27B: $0.00/$0.00.
5× compared to MACU (e.g., 115.0K vs. 653.0K tokens on gpt-5.4-mini and 138.0K vs. 721.0K tokens
on Qwen3.7-Plus). In MACU, the manager must continuously inspect sub-task outputs and relay
intermediate context. In contrast, Spine-Branch establishes a well-planned information architecture:
live VM states propagate directly along the single spine via VM inheritance, while clean artifacts pass
explicitly between dependent nodes, eliminating the need for the manager to act as a context relay
between sub-tasks. We also notice that on the strongest backbone, Qwen3.7-Plus, MACU fails to improve
upon the single-agent baseline and even degrades performance (50.5% vs. 55.0% SR). This regression
occurs mainly because MACU ignores the single-parent VM inheritance constraint, forcing even capable
agents to discard live environments and perform costly reconstruction. Spine-Branch alleviates this issue
by guaranteeing state continuity along the spine, unlocking test-time scaling, pushing Qwen3.7-Plus
to 67.0% SR (+16.5% over MACU). Finally, on the smaller Qwen3.6-27B, Spine-Branch uses 5.9% more
agent steps (197.9 vs. 186.9) and slightly more CUA tokens (6.69M vs. 5.93M) than MACU, despite both
strategies executing the nearly the same number of subtasks (4.8 per task). This disparity arises because
MACU’s manager aggressively cancels underperforming subtasks early (10.8% abort in ≤10 steps vs.
3.5% for Spine-Branch shown in Appendix Figure 6), depressing MACU’s average steps per subtask
at the cost of task completion. In contrast, Spine-Branch lets each subtask run to completion without
replanning interruptions, successfully converting these extra execution steps into a massive boost in
success rate (44.0% vs. 28.5%).
Figure 2 breaks down task success rates across difficulty levels. On the weaker backbone (Qwen3.6-27B),
7


Scale AI Research
Figure 2. Model Performance Across Task Difficulties
Spine-Branch consistently outperforms both baselines across all difficulty tiers. As CUA capabilities
scale, Spine-Branch’s advantage becomes most pronounced on hard tasks: while Single-agent and
MACU suffer sharp performance drops as task horizons lengthen, Spine-Branch exhibits much milder
degradation. Remarkably, with Qwen3.7-Plus, Spine-Branch even achieves a higher success rate on hard
tasks than on medium tasks (65.1% vs. 60.9%), demonstrating its exceptional coordination effectiveness
in managing complex, long-horizon workflows.
4 Ablations & Analysis
We conduct crucial ablations and analysis to better understand the performance of the Spine-Branch
system. Due to the budget limit, the results in this section are based on a fixed subset of Odysseys: 45
stratified tasks sampled across the easy, medium, and hard levels (see Appendix B).
Ablation on Spine and Branches.
We isolate the two main structural components of Spine-Branch while
holding the other configuration fixed. In the branch-only variant, all workers operate in fresh VMs and
communicate exclusively through aritfacts. In the spine-only variant, all workers execute along a single
VM lineage without parallel branches. As shown in Table 2, removing either spine or branches degrades
performance, confirming that the two mechanisms are complementary. Removing the spine causes
the larger drop: SR decreases from 73.3% to 66.7%. This result highlights the importance of preserving
continuous VM state with necessary information for long-horizon CUA tasks. Removing the branches
yields a smaller but consistent decline, reducing SR to 71.1%. A continuous spine therefore captures most
of the accuracy benefit, but serializing all work limits independent coverage and concentrates execution
errors within one trajectory. The full framework combines state continuity with parallel, failure-isolated
exploration, achieving the highest accuracy with fewer agent actions than either ablation (203.8 per task,
compared with 258.9 for branch-only and 261.7 for spine-only).
Ablation on Step-budget Prompting.
In Spine-Branch, besides VM-state inheritance, other information
transfer is based on extractable artifacts. Step-budget prompting (SBP) reminds each subagent to deliver
necessary files before running out of its step budget. Theoretically, SBP can be applied to any CUA. To
investigate the role of this component, we run Single-Agent, MACU, and Spine-Branch with SBP off and
on, with everything else fixed. Figure 3 reports the results. We can see that only on Spine-Branch, SBP
8


Scale AI Research
Table 2. Component Ablation on 45 Tasks from Odysseys with Qwen3.7-Plus
Method
Spine Branches Success Rate
Rubric Avg.
Actions / Task
Cost / Task
Single-Agent
–
–
62.2
83.0
91.9
$1.16
MACU
–
–
57.8
80.2
288.1
$4.53
Branch-only
No
Yes
66.7
83.2
258.9
$2.54
Spine-only
Yes
No
71.1
88.0
261.7
$2.37
Spine-Branch
Yes
Yes
73.3
90.6
203.8
$2.20
Figure 3. Ablation of step-budget prompting across Single-Agent, MACU, and Spine-Branch, which shows
inconsistent effects on Single-Agent and MACU, it consistently improves Spine-Branch.
consistently brings better overall performance and lower cost across the backbones. Single-Agent and
MACU underperform Spine-Branch with SBP on. This indicates the effectiveness of SBP in Spine-Branch.
We investigate this by delving into the trajectories of the Spine-Branch runs. Two main patterns show
that step-budget prompting does not uniformly prevent truncation loss; it also rescues abandoned
tasks:
• It prevents truncation loss. On tasks where the agent would over-explore until the step cap, SBP
makes the agent commit its (partial) results before the cap, which lowers token use (Tokens ↓).
• It rescues abandoned tasks. A weak subagent terminates early or under-works a task. SBP pushes it
to keep going and actually finish, which raises token use (Tokens ↑).
Table 3. Distribution of Two Main Patterns that Step-
budget Prompting Induces
CUA backbone
Tokens ↓
Tokens ↑
Qwen3.6-27B
9 (+6.2)
6 (+7.6)
gpt-5.4-mini
6 (+5.4)
2 (+3.5)
Qwen3.7-Plus
8 (+7.7)
0 (+0.0)
Table 3 shows the breakdown of the above two pat-
terns across the backbones. We count the tasks that
get higher rubric scores and classify them based on
the token-usage change before and after applying SBP.
Each cell is formatted as X(∆), where X is the number
of tasks and ∆denotes the contribution to the average
rubric gain. For example, 6 (+7.6) in the Qwen3.6-27B
row means 6 tasks improved with tokens rising, in-
creasing the overall rubric score by 7.6 points. We can
see that the first pattern is the main cause of rubric gains, and the second pattern only appears in the
weaker backbones. This indicates that SBP helps backbones of different computer-use capability via
different channels.
9


Scale AI Research
Failure Modes.
To analyze the system’s performance boundaries, we examine the non-perfect runs
across all three backbones. As categorized in Figure 4, failure modes fall into two distinct families:
Environment Block (35%) and CUA Incapability (65%). Environment Block represents external web
constraints beyond agent control, comprising anti-bot/CAPTCHA walls (25%) and unreachable sites
(10%) while CUA Incapability reflects base-model execution limitations that are not induced by the
coordination layer. The single largest CUA Incapability issue is instruction-following failure (29%), for
example, a prompt requests a specific web deliverable (e.g., a CryptPad spreadsheet), but the CUA
records the gathered content to local files instead. The remaining Single-Agent errors include premature
stopping (15%), skipping or misexecuting explicit steps (8%), wasting step budget on wrong paths (8%),
and fabricating data when target values are unreachable (6%). Crucially, none of these failure modes are
introduced by the Spine-Branch coordination structure; system performance is bounded mainly by web
accessibility and CUA competence, which will decrease as sub-agent backbones advance.
Figure 4. Failure Modes
Case Study
We provide representative cases show-
ing two main reasons why Spine-Branch wins over
MACU by structuring the plan around a single spine
with continuous VM state plus disposable branches.
First, Spine-Branch coordination yields a cleaner,
more parallel decomposition.
As shown in the
Babywearing-jacket task in Appendix Figure 5, the
plan generated by Spine-Branch coordination has
better parallelism than that of MACU. After gath-
ering all the jacket information, MACU assigns all
remaining tasks to a single node that needs to select
finalists, build the table and deck, and re-open all
10 tabs at once, which is overburdening for a single
subtask node. In contrast, Spine-Branch splits them
into a first task of picking 5 finalists and two subsequent parallel tasks: building the CryptPad deck and
opening the required tabs separately. This is because Spine-Branch assigns tasks whose deliverables
are extractable files to branches. This makes the task decomposition cleaner and boosts parallelism.
Second, Spine-Branch coordination carries heavy live state on the spine and avoids rebuilding it.
The Iceland Camper-Van Trip task in Appendix Figure 5 requires a 5-day itinerary with driving times
and 12 sightseeing stops, leaving open the final route map view alongside 5 campground pages and 3
attraction pages. The heaviest live state is the interactive route map session. MACU’s finalizer merges
three research VMs but wrongly inherits the first the campground pages parent, discarding the route map
parent, the exact VM holding the interactive route, which must be rebuilt from scratch. Spine-Branch
instead establishes the route map node as the spine head and carries its VM straight into the final spine
node. This preserves the live map while adding auxiliary tabs.
When Decomposition Is Not Worth the Cost
We compare Single-Agent and Spine-Branch on OSWorld
2.0 (Yuan et al., 2026), where tasks are graded programmatically from the final state of a single VM. We
use gpt-5.6-luna with xhigh reasoning effort as the CUA backbone and evaluate 65 tasks for which
the planner produces at least one branch. We use a step budget of 300 for Single-Agent and 180 for the
workers of Spine-Branch, and apply a wall-clock limit of 90 mins for a whole task and 60 mins for a
subtask. Table 4 shows that Single-Agent achieves higher partial reward (0.22 vs. 0.16), uses fewer steps,
10


Scale AI Research
and incurs no timeouts. The gap is almost entirely explained by execution overhead: on the 44 tasks
completed by Spine-Branch, the two methods obtain comparable rewards (0.224 vs. 0.220), whereas the
21 timed-out Spine-Branch runs receive only 0.026. Thus, decomposition provides little quality benefit
when it completes, while its longer multi-worker execution is heavily penalized by the wall-clock limit.
Table 4. Results on the 65 decomposable OSWorld 2.0 tasks. Reward is the mean programmatic score in [0, 1];
Success Rate is the fraction of tasks receiving full reward.
Method
Reward ↑
Success Rate ↑
Steps
Timeouts
Single-Agent
0.22
5/65
74
0/65
Spine-Branch
0.16
3/65
127
21/65
Mean reward conditioned on Spine-Branch completion status
Subset
n
Single-Agent
Spine-Branch
∆
SB finished
44
0.220
0.224
+0.004
SB timed out
21
0.219
0.026
−0.193
Inspection of the generated task graphs reveals a main failure mode. The planner creates branches
for trivial tasks whose coordination overhead exceeds the work being parallelized. In task 013, a
branch performs simple PDF reading that only takes few steps. Tasks 040 and 080 also assign trivial
gathering to branches without shortening the main editing workflow. This observation motivates a
general principle for decomposing GUI-based computer-use tasks: parallelizing independent, non-
trivial tasks. Applying this principle to the graph planning identifies approximately 18% of the tasks as
genuine candidates for decomposition. The performance comparison on these tasks are shown in Table
5.
Table 5. Results on 19 OSWorld 2.0 tasks worth decomposing.
Method
Reward ↑
Success Rate ↑
Steps
Timeouts
Single-Agent
0.12
0/19
83
0/19
Spine-Branch
0.17
1/19
132
0/19
The better performance of Spine-Branch over the Single-Agent baseline demonstrates the effectiveness of
the principle. Along with the results in Table 4, we highlight an important capability of practical multi-
agent systems: beyond constructing more capable multi-agent coordination, they must also determine
whether the benefits of coordination justify the coordination costs.
11


Scale AI Research
5 Related Work
Computer-Use Agents and Benchmarks.
Computer-use agents (CUAs) combine vision-language
understanding with action execution, building on perceptual grounding and screenshot-to-action tech-
niques such as Set-of-Mark prompting (Yang et al., 2023), SeeAct (Zheng et al., 2024), Ferret-UI (You et al.,
2025), and native GUI models like UI-TARS (Wang et al., 2025), Qwen3-VL (Bai et al., 2025), Fara (Awadal-
lah et al., 2025), and MolmoWeb (Gupta et al., 2026). To evaluate these models, benchmark environments
have evolved from synthetic or low-level web-interaction suites like MiniWoB++ (Liu et al., 2018) and
WebShop (Yao et al., 2022a) to complex, real-world web environments including WebArena (Zhou et al.,
2023), WebVoyager (He et al., 2024), and Online-Mind2Web (Xue et al., 2025). Beyond single browser
sessions, desktop OS and mobile benchmarks such as OSWorld (Xie et al., 2024), WindowsAgentArena
(Bonatti et al., 2024), AndroidWorld (Rawles et al., 2024), and iOSWorld (Jang et al., 2026b) measure
multimodal agent capabilities under dynamic system states. While recent long-horizon benchmarks such
as Agents’ Last Exam (Sun et al., 2026) and OSWorld 2.0 (Yuan et al., 2026) evaluate complex professional
workflows, they primarily stress offline file/CLI script operations or single-agent dynamic reactivity. In
contrast, Odysseys (Jang et al., 2026a) introduces 200 long-horizon tasks with multi-site workflows that
naturally decompose into subtasks, making it uniquely suited for evaluating multi-agent coordination
frameworks in computer-use settings.
Multi-Agent Coordination.
Single-agent reasoning paradigms such as ReAct (Yao et al., 2022b), Re-
flexion (Shinn et al., 2023), and Tree-of-Thoughts (Yao et al., 2023) equip an individual agent with
reasoning and planning. Multi-agent systems coordinate several such agents, through orchestration
frameworks (Wu et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023; Hong et al., 2023; Qian et al., 2024) or debate (Du et al., 2023).
A central design question is the communication substrate: how intermediate results move between
agents. These systems differ in their communication substrate: some route every result through a central
manager that relays it to sub-agents (Kimi Team: Tongtong Bai et al., 2026; Ruan et al., 2026), while
others decentralize coordination so that agents communicate through a shared, verified context (Mao
& Mirhoseini, 2026). Crucially, these systems share one assumption: intermediate results are freely
copyable text, making fan-out and gather operations trivial. This assumption breaks for computer use,
where a subtask’s deliverable may be live VM state that cannot be serialized or merged across machines.
Recent computer-use agent systems (Zhang et al., 2024; Song et al., 2025; Agashe et al., 2025) introduce
multiple roles, but execute subtasks serially in a single environment. MACU (Koh et al., 2026) is the
closest multi-agent CUA system, dispatching sub-agents across isolated VMs under a dynamic manager;
yet it reconciles cross-VM state ad hoc rather than treating VM non-mergeability as a first-class design
principle. We close this gap by elevating single-parent VM inheritance to an explicit structural constraint
on the coordination.
6 Conclusion
We introduced Spine-Branch coordination, a framework for multi-agent computer use that treats single-
parent VM inheritance as a first-class constraint. By preserving live state along a single spine and
using parallel branches for extractable deliverables, the framework avoids VM merging and costly state
reconstruction while retaining substantial parallelism. On long-horizon tasks from Odysseys benchmark
across three CUA backbones, Spine-Branch improves Success Rate over MACU by 6.0% to 16.5% while
reducing per-task financial cost by 34% to 70%. Our analyses show that these gains arise from cleaner
task decomposition and continuous preservation of important VM state.
12


Scale AI Research
References
Saaket Agashe, Kyle Wong, Vincent Tu, Jiachen Yang, Ang Li, and Xin Eric Wang.
Agent S2: A
compositional generalist-specialist framework for computer use agents. arXiv [cs.AI], April 2025.
Ahmed Awadallah, Yash Lara, Raghav Magazine, Hussein Mozannar, Akshay Nambi, Yash Pandya,
Aravind Rajeswaran, Corby Rosset, Alexey Taymanov, Vibhav Vineet, Spencer Whitehead, and Andrew
Zhao. Fara-7B: An efficient agentic model for computer use. arXiv [cs.AI], November 2025.
Shuai Bai, Yuxuan Cai, Ruizhe Chen, Keqin Chen, Xionghui Chen, Zesen Cheng, Lianghao Deng, Wei
Ding, Chang Gao, Chunjiang Ge, Wenbin Ge, Zhifang Guo, Qidong Huang, Jie Huang, Fei Huang,
Binyuan Hui, Shutong Jiang, Zhaohai Li, Mingsheng Li, Mei Li, Kaixin Li, Zicheng Lin, Junyang Lin,
Xuejing Liu, Jiawei Liu, Chenglong Liu, Yang Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Shixuan Liu, Dunjie Lu, Ruilin Luo,
Chenxu Lv, Rui Men, Lingchen Meng, Xuancheng Ren, Xingzhang Ren, Sibo Song, Yuchong Sun, Jun
Tang, Jianhong Tu, Jianqiang Wan, Peng Wang, Pengfei Wang, Qiuyue Wang, Yuxuan Wang, Tianbao
Xie, Yiheng Xu, Haiyang Xu, Jin Xu, Zhibo Yang, Mingkun Yang, Jianxin Yang, An Yang, Bowen Yu,
Fei Zhang, Hang Zhang, Xi Zhang, Bo Zheng, Humen Zhong, Jingren Zhou, Fan Zhou, Jing Zhou,
Yuanzhi Zhu, and Ke Zhu. Qwen3-VL technical report. arXiv [cs.CV], November 2025.
Rogerio Bonatti, Dan Zhao, Francesco Bonacci, Dillon Dupont, Sara Abdali, Yinheng Li, Yadong Lu,
Justin Wagle, Kazuhito Koishida, Arthur Bucker, Lawrence Jang, and Zack Hui. Windows agent arena:
Evaluating multi-modal OS agents at scale. arXiv [cs.AI], September 2024.
Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. Improving factuality
and reasoning in language models through multiagent debate. arXiv [cs.CL], May 2023.
Tanmay Gupta, Piper Wolters, Zixian Ma, Peter Sushko, Rock Yuren Pang, Diego Llanes, Yue Yang, Taira
Anderson, Boyuan Zheng, Zhongzheng Ren, Harsh Trivedi, Taylor Blanton, Caleb Ouellette, Winson
Han, Ali Farhadi, and Ranjay Krishna. MolmoWeb: Open visual web agent and open data for the
open web, 2026.
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong Lan, and
Dong Yu. WebVoyager: Building an end-to-end web agent with large multimodal models. arXiv
[cs.CL], January 2024.
Sirui Hong, Xiawu Zheng, Jonathan Chen, Yuheng Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang, Steven
Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, Chenyu Ran, Lingfeng Xiao, and Chenglin Wu. MetaGPT:
Meta programming for multi-agent collaborative framework. arXiv [cs.AI], August 2023.
Lawrence Keunho Jang, Jing Yu Koh, Daniel Fried, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Odysseys: Benchmarking
web agents on realistic long horizon tasks. arXiv [cs.LG], April 2026a.
Lawrence Keunho Jang, Mareks Woodside, Geronimo Carom, Andrew Keunwoo Jang, Jing Yu Koh, and
Ruslan Salakhutdinov. iOSWorld: A benchmark for personally intelligent phone agents. arXiv [cs.LG],
June 2026b.
Kimi Team: Tongtong Bai, Yifan Bai, Yiping Bao, S H Cai, Yuan Cao, Y Charles, H S Che, Cheng Chen,
Guanduo Chen, Huarong Chen, Jia Chen, Jiahao Chen, Jianlong Chen, Jun Chen, Kefan Chen, Liang
Chen, Ruijue Chen, Xinhao Chen, Yanru Chen, Yanxu Chen, Yicun Chen, Yimin Chen, Yingjiang Chen,
Yuankun Chen, Yujie Chen, Yutian Chen, Zhirong Chen, Ziwei Chen, Dazhi Cheng, Minghan Chu,
13


Scale AI Research
Jialei Cui, Jiaqi Deng, Muxi Diao, Hao Ding, Mengfan Dong, Mengnan Dong, Yuxin Dong, Yuhao Dong,
Angang Du, Chenzhuang Du, Dikang Du, Lingxiao Du, Yulun Du, Yu Fan, Shengjun Fang, Qiulin
Feng, Yichen Feng, Garimugai Fu, Kelin Fu, Hongcheng Gao, Tong Gao, Yuyao Ge, Shangyi Geng,
Chengyang Gong, Xiaochen Gong, Zhuoma Gongque, Qizheng Gu, Xinran Gu, Yicheng Gu, Longyu
Guan, Yuanying Guo, Xiaoru Hao, Weiran He, Wenyang He, Yunjia He, Chao Hong, Hao Hu, Jiaxi Hu,
Yangyang Hu, Zhenxing Hu, Ke Huang, Ruiyuan Huang, Weixiao Huang, Zhiqi Huang, Tao Jiang,
Zhejun Jiang, Xinyi Jin, Yu Jing, Guokun Lai, Aidi Li, C Li, Cheng Li, Fang Li, Guanghe Li, Guanyu
Li, Haitao Li, Haoyang Li, Jia Li, Jingwei Li, Junxiong Li, Lincan Li, Mo Li, Weihong Li, Wentao Li,
Xinhang Li, Xinhao Li, Yang Li, Yanhao Li, Yiwei Li, Yuxiao Li, Zhaowei Li, Zheming Li, Weilong Liao,
Jiawei Lin, Xiaohan Lin, Zhishan Lin, Zichao Lin, Cheng Liu, Chenyu Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Liang
Liu, Shaowei Liu, Shudong Liu, Shuran Liu, Tianwei Liu, Tianyu Liu, Weizhou Liu, Xiangyan Liu,
Yangyang Liu, Yanming Liu, Yibo Liu, Yuanxin Liu, Yue Liu, Zhengying Liu, Zhongnuo Liu, Enzhe Lu,
Haoyu Lu, Zhiyuan Lu, Junyu Luo, Tongxu Luo, Yashuo Luo, Long Ma, Yingwei Ma, Shaoguang Mao,
Yuan Mei, Xin Men, Fanqing Meng, Zhiyong Meng, Yibo Miao, Minqing Ni, Kun Ouyang, Siyuan Pan,
Bo Pang, Yuchao Qian, Ruoyu Qin, Zeyu Qin, Jiezhong Qiu, Bowen Qu, Zeyu Shang, Youbo Shao,
Tianxiao Shen, Zhennan Shen, Juanfeng Shi, Lidong Shi, Shengyuan Shi, Feifan Song, Pengwei Song,
Tianhui Song, Xiaoxi Song, Hongjin Su, Jianlin Su, Zhaochen Su, Lin Sui, Jinsong Sun, Junyao Sun,
Tongyu Sun, Flood Sung, Yunpeng Tai, Chuning Tang, Heyi Tang, Xiaojuan Tang, Zhengyang Tang,
Jiawen Tao, Shiyuan Teng, Chaoran Tian, Pengfei Tian, Ao Wang, Bowen Wang, Chensi Wang, Chuang
Wang, Congcong Wang, Dingkun Wang, Dinglu Wang, Dongliang Wang, Feng Wang, Hailong Wang,
Haiming Wang, Hengzhi Wang, Huaqing Wang, Hui Wang, Jiahao Wang, Jinhong Wang, Jiuzheng
Wang, Kaixin Wang, Linian Wang, Qibin Wang, Shengjie Wang, Shuyi Wang, Si Wang, Wei Wang,
Xiaochen Wang, Xinyuan Wang, Yao Wang, Yejie Wang, Yipu Wang, Yiqin Wang, Yucheng Wang, Yuzhi
Wang, Zhaoji Wang, Zhaowei Wang, Zhengtao Wang, Zhexu Wang, Zihan Wang, Zizhe Wang, Chu
Wei, Ming Wei, Chuan Wen, Zichen Wen, Chengjie Wu, Haoning Wu, Junyan Wu, Rucong Wu, Wenhao
Wu, Yuefeng Wu, Yuhao Wu, Yuxin Wu, Zijian Wu, Chenjun Xiao, Jin Xie, Xiaotong Xie, Yuchong Xie,
Yifei Xin, Bowei Xing, Boyu Xu, Jianfan Xu, Jing Xu, Jinjing Xu, L H Xu, Lin Xu, Suting Xu, Weixin Xu,
Xinbo Xu, Xinran Xu, Yangchuan Xu, Yichang Xu, Yuemeng Xu, Zelai Xu, Ziyao Xu, Junjie Yan, Yuzi
Yan, Guangyao Yang, Hao Yang, Junwei Yang, Kai Yang, Ningyuan Yang, Ruihan Yang, Xiaofei Yang,
Xinlong Yang, Ying Yang, Yi Yang, Yi Yang, Zhen Yang, Zhilin Yang, Zonghan Yang, Haotian Yao, Dan
Ye, Wenjie Ye, Zhuorui Ye, Bohong Yin, Chengzhen Yu, Longhui Yu, Tao Yu, Tianxiang Yu, Enming
Yuan, Mengjie Yuan, Xiaokun Yuan, Yang Yue, Weihao Zeng, Dunyuan Zha, Haobing Zhan, Dehao
Zhang, Hao Zhang, Jin Zhang, Puqi Zhang, Qiao Zhang, Rui Zhang, Xiaobin Zhang, Y Zhang, Yadong
Zhang, Yangkun Zhang, Yichi Zhang, Yizhi Zhang, Yongting Zhang, Yu Zhang, Yushun Zhang, Yutao
Zhang, Yutong Zhang, Zheng Zhang, Chenguang Zhao, Feifan Zhao, Jinxiang Zhao, Shuai Zhao,
Xiangyu Zhao, Yikai Zhao, Zijia Zhao, Huabin Zheng, Ruihan Zheng, Shaojie Zheng, Tengyang Zheng,
Junfeng Zhong, Longguang Zhong, Weiming Zhong, M Zhou, Runjie Zhou, Xinyu Zhou, Zaida Zhou,
Jinguo Zhu, Liya Zhu, Xinhao Zhu, Yuxuan Zhu, Zhen Zhu, Jingze Zhuang, Weiyu Zhuang, Ying Zou,
and Xinxing Zu. Kimi K2.5: Visual agentic intelligence. arXiv [cs.CL], February 2026.
Jing Yu Koh, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Daniel Fried. Multi-agent computer use. arXiv [cs.MA], June
2026.
Guohao Li, Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem.
CAMEL: Communicative agents for “mind” exploration of large language model society. arXiv [cs.AI],
March 2023.
14


Scale AI Research
Evan Zheran Liu, Kelvin Guu, Panupong Pasupat, Tianlin Shi, and Percy Liang. Reinforcement learning
on web interfaces using workflow-guided exploration. arXiv [cs.AI], February 2018.
Nelson F Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paranjape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy
Liang. Lost in the middle: How language models use long contexts. Trans. Assoc. Comput. Linguist., 12:
157–173, February 2024.
Yuzhen Mao and Azalia Mirhoseini. Decentralized multi-agent systems with shared context. arXiv
[cs.MA], June 2026.
Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen,
Yusheng Su, Xin Cong, Juyuan Xu, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. ChatDev: Commu-
nicative agents for software development. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 15174–15186, Stroudsburg, PA, USA, 2024.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Christopher Rawles, Sarah Clinckemaillie, Yifan Chang, Jonathan Waltz, Gabrielle Lau, Marybeth Fair,
Alice Li, William Bishop, Wei Li, Folawiyo Campbell-Ajala, Daniel Toyama, Robert Berry, Divya Tyam-
agundlu, Timothy Lillicrap, and Oriana Riva. AndroidWorld: A dynamic benchmarking environment
for autonomous agents. arXiv [cs.AI], May 2024.
Jianhao Ruan, Zhihao Xu, Yiran Peng, Fashen Ren, Zhaoyang Yu, Xinbing Liang, Jinyu Xiang, Yongru
Chen, Bang Liu, Chenglin Wu, Yuyu Luo, and Jiayi Zhang. AOrchestra: Automating sub-agent
creation for agentic orchestration. arXiv [cs.AI], February 2026.
Marc Shapiro, Nuno Preguiça, Carlos Baquero, and Marek Zawirski. Conflict-free replicated data types.
In Proceedings of the 13th international conference on Stabilization, safety, and security of distributed systems,
SSS’11, pp. 386–400, Berlin, Heidelberg, October 2011. Springer-Verlag.
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. Reflexion:
language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 36, pp. 8634–8652, San Diego, California, USA, 2023. Neural Information Processing Systems
Foundation, Inc. (NeurIPS).
Linxin Song, Yutong Dai, Viraj Prabhu, Jieyu Zhang, Taiwei Shi, Li Li, Junnan Li, Silvio Savarese, Zeyuan
Chen, Jieyu Zhao, Ran Xu, and Caiming Xiong. CoAct-1: Computer-using multi-agent system with
coding actions. arXiv [cs.CL], August 2025.
Lijun Sun, Yijun Yang, Qiqi Duan, Yuhui Shi, Chao Lyu, Yu-Cheng Chang, Chin-Teng Lin, and Yang
Shen. Multi-agent coordination across diverse applications: A survey. arXiv [cs.MA], February 2025.
Yiyou Sun, Xinyang Han, Weichen Zhang, Yuanbo Pang, Tianyu Wang, Yuhan Cao, Yixiao Huang,
Chris Duroiu, Haoyun Zhang, Jeffrey Lin, Weishu Zhang, Tyler Zeng, Ying Yan, Bo Liu, Hanson
Wen, Mingyang Xu, Xiaoyuan Liu, Zimeng Chen, Weiyan Shi, Amanda Dsouza, Vincent Sunn Chen,
Patrick Bryant, Carl Boettiger, Yamini Rangan, Bradley Rothenberg, Kyle Steinfeld, Arvind Rao,
Tapio Schneider, Georgios Yannakakis, Laure Zanna, Kaan Ozbay, Ida Sim, Tarek Zohdi, George Em
Karniadakis, Jack Gallant, Teresa Head-Gordon, Yushan Li, Wenxi Deng, Tao Sun, Huiqi Wang, Zhun
Wang, Justin Xu, Chris Yuhao Liu, Yafei Cheng, Rongwang Hu, Aras Bacho, Shengcao Cao, Zengyi
Qin, Yixiong Chen, Hengduan Fan, Hao Liu, Lin Zeng, Shashank Muralidhar Bharadwaj, Litian Gong,
Yingxuan Yang, Maojia Song, Ruheng Wang, Zongzheng Zhang, Honglin Bao, Shuo Lu, Jianhong
15


Scale AI Research
Tu, Zhonghua Wang, Zheng Zhang, Zijiao Chen, Yanqiong Jiang, Zhendong Li, Bohan Lyu, Chang
Ma, Peiran Xu, Benran Zhang, Shangding Gu, Haoyue Hua, Haoyang Li, Wanzhe Liao, Chengzhi
Liu, Junbo Peng, Haoran Sun, Zechen Xu, Bo Chen, Jiayi Cheng, Yi Jiang, Keying Kuang, Yuan Li,
Youbang Pan, Ziyan Rao, Alexander Schubert, Yifan Shen, Vincent Siu, Xiatao Sun, Kangqi Zhang,
Xiaopan Zhang, Yuchen Zhu, Ishaan Singh Chandok, Lei Ding, Jingxuan Fan, Andrew Glover, Jiaming
Hu, Yiran Hu, Wenbo Huang, Zixin Jiang, Haoran Jin, Lukas Kim, Ming Liu, Yang Liu, Alireza
Rafiei, Xuhuan Shen, Kunyang Sun, Sophia Sun, Ting Sun, Eric Wang, Yixin Wang, Hanwen Xing,
Sihan Xu, Yuzheng Xu, Zhongxing Xu, Zhiling Yan, Boqin Yuan, Ruiqi Zhang, Yifan Zhang, Zibo
Zhao, Liana, Santanu Bosu Antu, Haoyue Bai, Carlo Bosio, Joseph Cavanagh, Patricia Cavazos-Rehg,
Tianxing Chen, Xuewen Chen, Yipu Chen, Chenyu Zhu, Chen Dai, Stefano De Castro, Yunfu Deng,
Kaustubh Dhole, Jiayuan Ding, Chenchen Du, Zhehang Du, Hao Fan, Run-Ze Fan, Hengyu Fu, Shi
Gu, Yifan Gu, Charlie Guo, Baihe Huang, Baixiang Huang, Rimika Jaiswal, Zhihan Jiang, Ran Jin,
Erin Kasson, Xin Lan, Joseph Lee, Deren Lei, Chenyu Li, Daofeng Li, Haitao Li, Hongwei Li, Jingyan
Li, Xiao Li, Yi Li, Yinsheng Li, Yuangang Li, Zhixu Li, Wenyu Liang, Longtai Liao, Kevin Qinghong
Lin, Andy Zeyi Liu, Che Liu, Jiaming Liu, Kaiyuan Liu, Xuan Liu, Pan Lu, Wenbo Lv, Yicheng Lyu,
Qiuyang Mang, Kyle Montgomery, Yuzhou Nie, Ruoxi Ning, Jorin Overwiening, Xu Pan, Layna
Paraboschi, Core Francisco Park, Justin Purnomo, Swati Rajwal, Scott Rankin, Bixuan Ren, Yiren Rong,
Haoyang Shang, Ventus Shaw, Fiona Shen, Jiawei Shen, Minqi Shi, Shi Qiu, Huaxiu Yao, Tianneng Shi,
Jonah So, Vladislav Susoy, Hannah Szlyk, Haocheng Wang, Jialu Wang, Wei Wang, Xinyu Wang, Zehao
Wang, Dowling Wong, Angela Wu, Dehao Wu, Fangyu Wu, Mengyuan “millie” Wu, Yu Wu, Yuchen
Wu, Yuhao Wu, Qingpo Wuwu, Weihang Xiao, Yongyi Xiong, Fan Xu, Ruiling Xu, Mingxuan Yan,
Benjamin Yang, Jirong Yang, Sen Yang, Xiaoli Yang, Yushi Yang, Haoran Ye, Xiaohu Yu, Zhengming
Yu, Chenlong Zhang, Chi Zhang, Hanning Zhang, Hanwen Zhang, Junge Zhang, Kunpeng Zhang,
Song Zhang, Wenjin Zhang, Wenshuo Zhang, Ying Zhang, Yizhi Zhang, Brian Zhao, Qijian Zhao,
Yimin Zhao, Yuhaohua Zheng, Liwei Zhou, Tianyue Zhou, Sichen Zhu, Siqi Zhu, Yan Zhu, Yishu
Zhu, Jierui Zuo, Chonghao Cai, Helena Casademunt, Wenjia Chen, Cheng Cheng, Nawen Deng, Rao
Fu, Tianfu Fu, Yifan Han, He Ren, Zhenyu He, Qiao Jin, Langlang Li, Yuetai Li, Sylvia Liu, Lu Lu,
Luqing Zhou, Subhabrata Mukherjee, Yunqi Ouyang, Yin Ren, Dawei Shi, Haoran Wu, Zhiyue Wu,
Hannah Yao, Zhuoran Yi, Jenny Yu, Rhea Zhan, Hang Zhou, Blake Zhu, Junfan Zhu, Alan Yuille,
Yang Liu, Russell Alan Poldrack, Jiachen Li, Zhenglu Li, Molei Tao, Jing Huang, Wenqi Shi, Costas
Spanos, Lichao Sun, Chenguang Wang, Orson Xu, Zhen Dong, Hector Gomez, Aylin Caliskan, Ali
Emami, Haimin Hu, Zhi Li, Lihui Liu, Murphy Niu, Yi Shao, Jianxin Sun, Mikko Tolonen, Ting Wang,
Sanjiv Das, Yanjun Gao, Wenbo Guo, Erika J Schneider, Zhiyong Lu, Yian Ma, Mark Mueller, Radha
Poovendran, Somayeh Sojoudi, Yinglun Zhu, and Dawn Song. Agents’ last exam. arXiv [cs.AI], June
2026.
Haoming Wang, Haoyang Zou, Huatong Song, Jiazhan Feng, Junjie Fang, Junting Lu, Longxiang Liu,
Qinyu Luo, Shihao Liang, Shijue Huang, Wanjun Zhong, Yining Ye, Yujia Qin, Yuwen Xiong, Yuxin
Song, Zhiyong Wu, Aoyan Li, Bo Li, Chen Dun, Chong Liu, Daoguang Zan, Fuxing Leng, Hanbin
Wang, Hao Yu, Haobin Chen, Hongyi Guo, Jing Su, Jingjia Huang, Kai Shen, Kaiyu Shi, Lin Yan,
Peiyao Zhao, Pengfei Liu, Qinghao Ye, Renjie Zheng, Shulin Xin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Wen Heng, Wenhao
Huang, Wenqian Wang, Xiaobo Qin, Yi Lin, Youbin Wu, Zehui Chen, Zihao Wang, Baoquan Zhong,
Xinchun Zhang, Xujing Li, Yuanfan Li, Zhongkai Zhao, Chengquan Jiang, Faming Wu, Haotian Zhou,
Jinlin Pang, Li Han, Qi Liu, Qianli Ma, Siyao Liu, Songhua Cai, Wenqi Fu, Xin Liu, Yaohui Wang, Zhi
Zhang, Bo Zhou, Guoliang Li, Jiajun Shi, Jiale Yang, Jie Tang, Li Li, Qihua Han, Taoran Lu, Woyu Lin,
Xiaokang Tong, Xinyao Li, Yichi Zhang, Yu Miao, Zhengxuan Jiang, Zili Li, Ziyuan Zhao, Chenxin Li,
Dehua Ma, Feng Lin, Ge Zhang, Haihua Yang, Hangyu Guo, Hongda Zhu, Jiaheng Liu, Junda Du, Kai
16


Scale AI Research
Cai, Kuanye Li, Lichen Yuan, Meilan Han, Minchao Wang, Shuyue Guo, Tianhao Cheng, Xiaobo Ma,
Xiaojun Xiao, Xiaolong Huang, Xinjie Chen, Yidi Du, Yilin Chen, Yiwen Wang, Zhaojian Li, Zhenzhu
Yang, Zhiyuan Zeng, Chaolin Jin, Chen Li, Hao Chen, Haoli Chen, Jian Chen, Qinghao Zhao, and
Guang Shi. UI-TARS-2 technical report: Advancing GUI agent with multi-turn reinforcement learning.
arXiv [cs.AI], September 2025.
Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang,
Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Ryen W White, Doug Burger, and Chi Wang.
AutoGen: Enabling next-gen LLM applications via multi-agent conversation. arXiv [cs.AI], August
2023.
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh Jing Hua,
Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, Yitao Liu, Yiheng Xu, Shuyan Zhou, Silvio Savarese,
Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Tao Yu. OSWorld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for open-
ended tasks in real computer environments. arXiv [cs.AI], April 2024.
Tianci Xue, Weijian Qi, Tianneng Shi, Chan Hee Song, Boyu Gou, Dawn Song, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. An
illusion of progress? assessing the current state of web agents. arXiv [cs.AI], April 2025.
Jianwei Yang, Hao Zhang, Feng Li, Xueyan Zou, Chunyuan Li, and Jianfeng Gao. Set-of-mark prompting
unleashes extraordinary visual grounding in GPT-4V. arXiv [cs.CV], October 2023.
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik Narasimhan. WebShop: Towards scalable real-world
web interaction with grounded language agents. arXiv [cs.CL], July 2022a.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. ReAct:
Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. arXiv [cs.CL], October 2022b.
Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan.
Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models. In Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems 36, pp. 11809–11822, San Diego, California, USA, 2023. Neural Information
Processing Systems Foundation, Inc. (NeurIPS).
Keen You, Haotian Zhang, Eldon Schoop, Floris Weers, Amanda Swearngin, Jeffrey Nichols, Yinfei Yang,
and Zhe Gan. Ferret-UI: Grounded mobile UI understanding with multimodal LLMs. In Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pp. 240–255. Springer Nature Switzerland,
Cham, 2025.
Mengqi Yuan, Zilong Zhou, Xinzhuang Xiong, Weiming Wu, Jiayang Sun, Jiamin Song, Kaiqian Cui,
Bowen Wang, Haoyuan Wu, Yitong Li, Dunjie Lu, Haikong Lu, Qi Zhen, Xinyuan Wang, Jiaqi Deng,
Yuhao Yang, Cheng Chen, Boyuan Zheng, Alex Su, Xiao Yu, Hao Zou, Saaket Agashe, Xing Han Lu,
Manpreet Kaur, Zhengyang Qi, Vincent Sunn Chen, Frederic Sala, Dayiheng Liu, Junyang Lin, Zhou
Yu, Yu Su, Siva Reddy, Xin Eric Wang, Peng Qi, Tianbao Xie, and Tao Yu. OSWorld 2.0: Benchmarking
computer use agents on long-horizon real-world tasks. arXiv [cs.AI], June 2026.
Yao Zhang, Zijian Ma, Yunpu Ma, Zhen Han, Yu Wu, and Volker Tresp. WebPilot: A versatile and
autonomous multi-agent system for web task execution with strategic exploration. arXiv [cs.AI],
August 2024.
Boyuan Zheng, Boyu Gou, Jihyung Kil, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. GPT-4V(ision) is a generalist web agent, if
grounded. arXiv [cs.IR], January 2024.
17


Scale AI Research
Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Yonatan
Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Graham Neubig. WebArena: A realistic web environment for
building autonomous agents. arXiv [cs.AI], July 2023.
18


Scale AI Research
A Prompts for Spine-Branch Coordination
A.1 Spine-Branch decomposition prompt
The planner (claude-opus-4-8) is called once per task with the system prompt below and the task-specific
user prompt that follows. It emits a single JSON dependency graph in which every node already declares
its role (spine/branch), its single operational parent (init_from), the artifacts it produces (outputs), and
the upstream artifacts it consumes (input_files). A deterministic legalizer (no LLM) then validates the
references and derives the spine lineage; the prompt is written so that the single-parent VM-inheritance
constraint of Section 2 is satisfied by construction.
System prompt.
You are a manager agent decomposing a computer-use task into a dependency graph of subtasks for a team of CUA (Computer
Use Agent) subagents, and wiring it for "spine-and-branch" execution. You are a regular LLM -- only CUA subagents can
interact with the desktop/browser.
## Agents
- **CUA subagents** (`"agent_type": "cua"`): control a browser/desktop -- navigate, click, type, extract, maintain
state. Any subtask touching a website/app MUST be a CUA.
- **Manager (you)** (`"agent_type": "manager"`): pure reasoning/synthesis, no browser. ONLY the final aggregation node
(`final_aggregation`) is a manager node. EVERY other node is a CUA subtask (`"agent_type": "cua"`) -- there are only CUA
tools, and even producing a file happens inside a VM, so all real work (including compiling/planning that writes a file
or opens tabs) is a CUA task, never a manager one.
## Decomposition principles (decompose FIRST, then wire)
1. **Exploit only natural parallelism** -- split into parallel subtasks only when the task genuinely needs independent
work (different sites/sources). Do NOT invent extra sources.
2. **Faithful & minimal** -- include only subtasks the task states or clearly implies; prefer fewer, coarser subtasks. A
single CUA subtask is valid for a sequential, single-site task.
3. **Final aggregation** -- always include a final step (`id: "final_aggregation"`, `agent_type: "manager"`) that
synthesizes the deliverable from the artifacts it reads.
## Two ways state flows between nodes
A VM inherits the live operational state (logins, open tabs, half-filled forms, running processes) of AT MOST ONE parent
VM -- operational state cannot be merged across two VMs. Informational state (facts, values, scraped data) is instead
captured as a named "artifact" and its CONTENT delivered (as text) to ANY number of downstream nodes.
- **operational flow** (`init_from`): the child continues the parent's SAME live session (same login, same open tabs). A
node has AT MOST ONE operational parent. Use this ONLY when the child genuinely must act within the parent's live
session (e.g. "while still logged in, do X").
- **informational flow** (`outputs` -> `input_files`): a producing node SAVES a named file with its result; each
consuming node that lists that name automatically gets the file's CONTENT in its instruction. Unrestricted fan-in.
PREFER this -- most coordination is informational.
## Spines -- there is EXACTLY ONE spine per task
When the task finishes, only ONE VM stays alive -- the VM that holds the final deliverable (the open tabs, the built
document, the completed form, the final state). The chain of nodes that builds that single deliverable VM is THE SPINE.
**Every task has exactly ONE spine.**
- The spine is a chain `s1 -> s2 -> ... -> sk` of `role: "spine"` nodes where each later node's `init_from` is the
previous spine node, so they all run in (and carry forward) the SAME one VM. `s1` (the spine head) starts fresh; every
other spine node inherits its predecessor's VM. The last spine node's VM IS the deliverable. (A one-step deliverable is
a single-node spine: `s1` only, `init_from: null`.)
- Everything else is a BRANCH: a parallel info-gatherer that runs in its OWN throwaway VM and hands its result to the
spine as an artifact (a URL, a value, scraped text). Branch VMs are discarded; only the spine VM survives.
### The critical pattern: "keep multiple tabs / docs open" is ONE spine, not many
If the deliverable is "leave N pages open", do NOT create N operational nodes that each hold a page -- that needs N live
VMs at the end, which is impossible (only one VM survives). It all lands in ONE spine VM.
### Balance TWO goals: parallelism (branches) and spine reuse (the main road)
19


Scale AI Research
The spine is the MAIN ROAD: the one VM that survives and carries the task's heavy/persistent state through to the
deliverable. BRANCHES are side roads -- parallel throwaway VMs that feed the main road cheap results (URLs, values).
Optimize for BOTH low wall-clock (parallelize in branches) and low agent-step count (let the spine INHERIT state instead
of re-creating it). Balance them; avoid both extremes.
Put a node ON THE SPINE when either:
- it must continue ONE live session with adjacent spine steps (login -> act, add-to-cart -> checkout); OR
- **its VM state is EXPENSIVE to restore and is part of the deliverable** -- e.g. it opens many tabs / builds up heavy
live state. Folding it into the spine lets the final VM INHERIT that state instead of re-opening it, saving many steps.
Make a node a BRANCH when its result is CHEAP to hand over and re-use -- a single URL or value. The spine later just
opens that URL.
Key efficiency point -- **folding the heavy node into the spine does NOT cost parallelism.** The spine HEAD has no
predecessor, so it runs at the very start AT THE SAME TIME as all the branches. So among several initial gather nodes,
put the ONE whose live state is most expensive to recreate on the spine (as its head, running concurrently with the
branch lookups); make the cheap ones branches; the spine TAIL then `init_from`s the head (inheriting that heavy state)
and only adds the cheap pages from the branch URLs.
When several parallel kept-open nodes are COMPARABLE and you cannot tell which is heaviest to restore, still pick ONE
arbitrarily as the spine head -- always let the spine inherit at least one kept-open page rather than leaving a minimal
spine that re-opens all of them. (The chosen node runs in parallel with the others anyway, so this is free.) Only when
there is genuinely nothing worth keeping open should the spine stay a single open-from-URLs node.
Avoid both extremes: putting EVERY node on the spine makes it fully sequential -- no better than a single agent (the
bigger risk); gathering everything in branches while the spine inherits nothing wastes the main road and forces costly
re-opening. Aim for: the heaviest-to-restore operational work on the spine (running in parallel with branches), cheap
independent lookups in parallel branches.
Examples:
- "Open pages A, B, C, D and keep them open; A requires lots of navigation / many sub-tabs to assemble, B-D are quick
URL finds" -> SPINE HEAD assembles A and keeps it open (heavy; runs in parallel with the branches); BRANCHES find B, C,
D URLs in parallel; SPINE TAIL `init_from`s the head (inheriting A's tabs) and opens B, C, D from those URLs. Parallel
AND no re-restore of A.
- "Keep three cheap-to-open pages open and report D's price" -> BRANCHES find the three URLs and D's price in parallel;
one short SPINE opens the three tabs. (Nothing heavy to inherit, so the spine stays minimal.)
- "Log in, then (still logged in) post a comment, then update the profile" -> SPINE CHAIN `login -> post -> edit` (must
share one session).
### When to chain spine nodes with init_from
Add a second/third spine node (chained via `init_from`) only when a later step must CONTINUE the same live session the
spine already established -- e.g. `login -> (still logged in) post_comment`, or `add_to_cart -> checkout`. Independent
information lookups are NEVER spine nodes and NEVER chained; they are branches that feed the spine.
**Rule of thumb:** exactly one spine. If you find yourself making two operational nodes that don't share one continuing
VM, one of them is really a BRANCH whose result should be handed to the spine as an artifact.
## Node role: what the node is FOR (independent of init_from)
Every node also declares a `role`, which decides how it is verified and what its value is:
- **`"spine"`**: the node is on THE single spine -- it builds/continues the one surviving deliverable VM (a live state
that must REMAIN at the end: browser tabs left open, a logged-in session). Verified by screenshots. There is one spine,
so spine nodes form one `init_from` chain.
- **`"branch"`**: the node's value is an ARTIFACT; its VM is discarded after it runs. Verified by the artifact's
content. This includes BOTH (a) parallel info-gathering, AND (b) **creating a persistent deliverable artifact** -- a
CryptPad / Google doc or sheet, a downloaded file, a compiled dataset. A created online doc/sheet persists at its URL
after the VM is gone, so the node that builds it is a BRANCH (its output is the doc's URL/content), NOT a spine -- even
though it used a browser to make it. Only a live state that must STAY OPEN is the spine.
## Deliverables and end nodes
A task may have SEVERAL end nodes (terminal CUA nodes whose results the final aggregation reads). Exactly ONE end node
is the spine's tail -- the one surviving deliverable VM (e.g. the tabs left open). The OTHER end nodes are BRANCHES that
produced artifact deliverables (a created sheet/doc, a dataset). Example: "research 3 sources, build a CryptPad summary,
and leave the 3 source tabs open" ->
- branches gather the 3 sources (artifacts),
- one BRANCH builds the CryptPad doc (artifact = the doc URL; terminal branch),
- one SPINE node opens the 3 source tabs (the surviving deliverable VM; terminal spine).
Two end nodes here (the CryptPad branch and the spine tail); both feed the final aggregation.
20


Scale AI Research
`role` is INDEPENDENT of `init_from`: a node may `init_from` a parent (to start inside that live session) and still be a
`branch` (it just extracts something and writes an artifact -- nobody continues ITS session). Likewise a `spine` node
need not have downstream operational children (a terminal "submit" step is still a spine -- its value is the operational
outcome). RULE: if any other node lists this node as its `init_from`, this node MUST be `"spine"` (its operational state
is used downstream). The aggregation/manager node is always `"branch"` (it only reads artifacts).
## How to wire artifacts (declared now; delivered as TEXT at runtime -- no files, no LLM)
- `outputs`: a list of `{"name", "description"}` objects, one per file this node SAVES (its result). `name` MUST be
GLOBALLY UNIQUE -- prefix with the node id, e.g. `"michelin_search__pick"`. `description` is a one-line summary of WHAT
it contains. Declare an output for anything a downstream node (or the aggregation) needs. A pure operational step nobody
reads from has `[]`.
- `input_files`: the exact upstream `outputs` names this node needs. At RUNTIME the system injects those files' CONTENT
directly into this node's instruction text -- the node does NOT open or read any file. Every entry MUST match some other
node's declared output `name`.
- `init_from`: the single operational parent id whose live session this node continues, or null. Most nodes are null.
- `dependencies`: every upstream node this waits for -- at least the producers of its `input_files` and its `init_from`.
## Instructions: just describe the WORK
Write each `instruction` as the task work only -- do NOT invent file paths or tell a CONSUMER to "open/load a file" (its
inputs' content is injected for it). The system handles the handoff: it appends to a PRODUCER the exact output files to
create, and to a CONSUMER the input content it needs, at the end of the instruction. So a consumer's instruction can
assume the needed information is already provided; just say what to do with it.
## Output format (valid JSON only -- no markdown, no extra text)
{
"task_analysis": "brief analysis + spine/branch strategy",
"subtasks": [
{
"id": "assemble_a",
"agent_type": "cua",
"description": "SPINE HEAD: assemble A's heavy state (many tabs / lots of navigation) and keep it open. Runs in
parallel with the branches.",
"dependencies": [],
"instruction": "Build up A: open the several pages A requires and leave them all open; record A's key info.",
"role": "spine",
"outputs": [{"name": "assemble_a__info", "description": "A summary + the URLs opened"}],
"input_files": [],
"init_from": null
},
{
"id": "find_b",
"agent_type": "cua",
"description": "BRANCH (parallel): B is cheap -- just find its URL",
"dependencies": [],
"instruction": "Find product B's page; record B's name, price, and URL.",
"role": "branch",
"outputs": [{"name": "find_b__info", "description": "product B name, price, URL"}],
"input_files": [],
"init_from": null
},
{
"id": "check_d",
"agent_type": "cua",
"description": "BRANCH (parallel): D is NOT kept open -- only its price/verdict is needed",
"dependencies": [],
"instruction": "Find item D and report its price and whether it is under $60.",
"role": "branch",
"outputs": [{"name": "check_d__verdict", "description": "D price + under-$60 verdict + URL"}],
"input_files": [],
"init_from": null
},
{
"id": "open_rest",
"agent_type": "cua",
"description": "SPINE TAIL: inherit A's heavy state (already open) and add only the cheap kept-open page B from
its URL",
"dependencies": ["assemble_a", "find_b"],
21


Scale AI Research
"instruction": "A's pages are already open in this VM. Open product B's URL in a new tab and leave all tabs
open.",
"role": "spine",
"outputs": [],
"input_files": ["find_b__info"],
"init_from": "assemble_a"
}
],
"aggregation": {
"id": "final_aggregation",
"agent_type": "manager",
"description": "combine results into the final text answer",
"dependencies": ["assemble_a", "find_b", "check_d"],
"instruction": "Using A's and B's info and D's verdict, write the final summary for the user.",
"role": "branch",
"outputs": [],
"input_files": ["assemble_a__info", "find_b__info", "check_d__verdict"],
"init_from": null
}
}
## Hard rules
- Subtask ids unique; `aggregation.id` is `"final_aggregation"`, `agent_type` `"manager"`, `init_from` null (it only
reads artifacts).
- At least one CUA subtask; `subtasks` is never empty (the work always requires a CUA -- desktop/browser actions, never
pure Q&A).
- ONLY `final_aggregation` has `agent_type: "manager"`. EVERY node in `subtasks` MUST have `agent_type: "cua"` --
including compile/plan/itinerary steps (they write a file in a VM, which is CUA work).
- Every `outputs` name is GLOBALLY UNIQUE across all nodes.
- Every `input_files` entry MUST equal some OTHER node's declared `outputs` name; a node never reads its own output.
- There is EXACTLY ONE spine: all `role: "spine"` nodes form a SINGLE `init_from` chain (one surviving deliverable VM).
Never produce two unconnected operational nodes -- make all but the spine into branches that feed it artifacts. If any
node lists this node as its `init_from`, this node MUST be `"spine"`. The aggregation node is `"branch"`.
- `init_from`, if set, MUST be one of the node's `dependencies` and reference a CUA subtask. (A `branch` node MAY have
an `init_from`.)
- The producer of every artifact a node reads MUST be in that node's `dependencies`.
- Keep instructions specific and actionable; for a single short request one CUA can do, prefer the original task text
verbatim as the instruction without over-prescribing steps.
User prompt.
Here is the task to decompose into a spine-and-branch dependency graph:
<task>
{task}
</task>
If a screenshot of the current desktop is attached, use it to understand the initial VM state (open apps, visible files)
and write more informed instructions.
Decompose the task (exploit only natural parallelism the task genuinely requires), then wire every node (outputs,
input_files, init_from) per the rules. Output the JSON only.
A.2 Step-budget prompting
Step-budget prompting is introduced in Section 2: at every CUA step we append a short, escalating
reminder to the agent’s instruction, computed from the steps already taken and the hard step cap M. It
adds no agents, tools, or extra model calls, only a few tokens per step and applies unchanged to any
CUA, single- or multi-agent. Let t be the 0-based index of the step about to be taken. The reminder is the
header below followed by one of three tails selected by the used fraction t/M.
22


Scale AI Research
Header (always prepended).
[STEP BUDGET] You are about to take step {t+1} of a HARD limit of {M} steps ({M-t} remaining). No further steps are
possible after that.
Escalating tail (selected by t/M).
# early, t/M < 0.5:
Work efficiently: avoid repeating actions or re-checking the same element, and commit to an answer as soon as you have
enough information.
# past halfway, 0.5 <= t/M < 0.75:
You are past halfway. Prioritize finishing the deliverable (including saving any required file) over more exploration.
If you already have enough information to answer, record it now rather than double-checking.
# near the cap, t/M >= 0.75:
You are running OUT of steps. Stop exploring immediately. If the task asks you to save a file, write your best current
answer to that file NOW and then finish. Do not re-verify anything you already know and do not repeat any earlier
action.
23


Scale AI Research
B The Odysseys-45 Development Subset
Several ablations and diagnostics in this paper are run on a 45-task development subset of Odysseys
(Jang et al., 2026a) rather than the full 200-task benchmark, because each configuration must be executed
in a live browser VM and then scored by the rubric judge, which is costly to repeat across the many
ablation cells. This appendix documents how the subset was drawn and lists its task IDs so the split is
fully reproducible.
Sampling procedure.
The full Odysseys benchmark contains 200 tasks whose difficulty labels are
skewed toward hard (45 easy, 46 medium, 109 hard). To obtain a compact subset that is (i) balanced
across difficulty and (ii) reproducible, we draw a stratified random sample of 15 tasks per difficulty level
(45 total). Sampling is without replacement and stratified only by the difficulty label; no filtering by
website, category, or rubric count is applied. The resulting balance is 15 / 15 / 15 (easy / medium / hard),
versus the native 45 / 46 / 109. The subset spans 9 distinct starting websites (the majority begin from a
Google search portal, matching the full benchmark’s entry distribution) and contains 264 atomic rubric
items in total (mean 5.9 per task, range 3–12).
Task IDs.
The 45 selected task IDs, grouped by difficulty level:
Easy (15).
0106b570440ffe4427d5e916f39ec986ab3de917, 082aa17f3e88c3ce10796244e3677c5643dd19c9,
0ab48db6076089bbcf42047d162009a50eb9ca50, 0ce94d4e773eff1042a6920232f929a1da98c44d,
140960bb7293bdeeb6bcc60931681cb9b815351b, 156e2acc95361db4145f5bc313abb63807750089,
2504a7886c3dcb33f1aac7c5d2831985887e789e, 2cb0ed2a5df6053c6c982a5c5d436d25e006370f,
39255449e341c41a589b8a4e17f073be3a4809c9, 4246dec196c9a3382b4224c7ec3a34a20be9f43f,
69782bfcfdb3311496bc9048bf66915b33e692cd, 71f8e3e9b5a24f37f492fbf97b7d31e08e9a8d61,
795687ed918e45a6ad255215aa2a517b3e014aa5, b1bd700090c23df9e9f6b7b9557ac418df602b8d,
b6b8ad71aa3112840790066d7d62b498babdfa5c.
Medium (15).
041a4bee5d80a28567dc65bc2e41dd198672bfe2, 18ddad3e0781d4b8fb2e1998ff836a0b07d0cdce,
256342f13c0a03e080f92ee073153fe33a6881c0, 295f11f4eebda80a7551944fd9b6f4e01db92666,
53419597c0c8897d49f1af65f5255bf265edcfbf, 69f48a0950d532a2f04ff51abe4bf0e05ec5649e,
73c63095aeed43efb10a74eee7db7459c5ea9f84, 78ddd1aab59eebace5f6f523d90012aa6c871c54,
795bfe117e0f58e49ca37ae8e453a507859a2a2b, 8fcdeed84a0deb05342b07c26116792a5b6a6a3f,
946321e8a9788f485d360f619127a2e7b7e1693a, b21a86441ddca8186175bfffcaae0358ed66eec4,
b4d11b2d7069bf45410b6784544504b23360b34a, dd2eedbc88cb41cc69e43dd1da9de7255a81a966,
e4be2c73dc00107611cd648772a11fb15c18289b.
Hard (15).
2a8418c2dccdaf5fe23ff143745cc5659d35fc69, 40735c71648c0ca0e6291d534685853acf1122c1,
54fdb6126b926e2a48b4e45ffc1fe303e873eb7f, 73f7a6bce89de66f106a669c85c7908331d3d1b7,
86cc69e23296a471c4e9e3da30d63ff54f31665f, 9acfcc050ae8de65ba5f5de787a47cef0589dd90,
9ad01a4a4bda2e8df7489c9831931b044c646a20, a5724e1c94ac221f0a53765c51f625b7bc3cc58e,
a5d88b699a2524de24e157d9269d0c42a070edab, a931f7baacfd7f1bcea8409bb8b3d84383734680,
d6007c19e6419c9eefdd57996fc151a2263b22fa, e53065fe786881377e88667a80ccc2edcb321320,
ef766b69020befdc8e208f47401cb6bce5e9b931, fb2f8bea3fa9528a581ce9e46bcc552c93e186a6,
fe1a5127a1329930e356744b7fd66a214592c630.
24


Scale AI Research
Table 6. The CUA action space. Each step emits exactly one action. coordinate is an (x, y) pixel target. The text
argument has two cases: (i) for type and answer it is the literal string to type or return; (ii) for click and scroll
actions it is optional and names modifier key(s) to hold during the action (e.g. ctrl, shift, ctrl+shift).
Action
Arguments
Description
Mouse
mouse_move
coordinate
Move the cursor to (x, y).
left_click
coordinate, [text]
Left-click at (x, y); optional held modifier key(s).
right_click
coordinate, [text]
Right-click at (x, y).
middle_click
coordinate, [text]
Middle-click at (x, y).
double_click
coordinate, [text]
Double-click at (x, y).
triple_click
coordinate, [text]
Triple-click at (x, y) (executed as double-click).
left_click_drag
coordinate
Press, drag, and release to (x, y).
scroll
pixels, [text]
Vertical scroll by pixels; optional held modifier.
hscroll
pixels, [text]
Horizontal scroll by pixels.
Keyboard
key
keys
Press the listed keys down in order then release in
reverse (chords/hotkeys, e.g. ctrl+c).
type
text
Type a string of text at the current focus.
Control
wait
time
Wait time seconds for the UI to settle, then re-
observe.
answer
text
Return a textual answer for an information-seeking
task.
terminate
status
End the task with status∈
{success,failure}
(failure = infeasible/unrecoverable).
C CUA Action Space
Every worker is a Computer-Use Agent (CUA) that operates the environment through the same low-level
interface: at each step it receives a screenshot (plus its running action history) and emits a single tool
call describing one GUI action, which is executed in the desktop VM via pyautogui before the next
screenshot is taken. All task progress is made by pixel-level interaction. Coordinates are given as (x, y)
pixels; depending on configuration these are either absolute screen pixels or normalized to a 1000 × 1000
grid that the harness rescales to the true resolution.
Table 6 lists the complete action space, exposed to the open-weight backbones (qwen3.6-27B,
qwen3.7-plus) as a single computer_use tool with an action field and the arguments below. The
proprietary gpt-5.4-mini backbone is driven through its provider’s native computer-use tool, whose
action set is equivalent and is translated to the identical pyautogui primitives in the same environment.
An episode ends when the agent emits terminate (or answer for information-seeking tasks), or when the
per-worker step budget is exhausted. terminate with status=failure lets an agent declare a subtask
infeasible rather than burning its remaining budget. “‘latex
25


Scale AI Research
Table 7. Manager ablation for Spine-Branch on Odysseys-45: a strong (opus-4-8) vs. a weak (gpt-5.4-mini)
manager, with only the manager changed.
CUA backbone
Manager
Macro
SR
Qwen3.7-Plus
Single-Agent
0.830
0.622
Spine-Branch, opus-4-8
0.906
0.733
Spine-Branch, gpt-5.4-mini
0.819
0.644
Qwen3.6-27B
Single-Agent
0.585
0.311
Spine-Branch, opus-4-8
0.751
0.511
Spine-Branch, gpt-5.4-mini
0.682
0.444
gpt-5.4-mini
Single-Agent
0.596
0.444
Spine-Branch, opus-4-8
0.818
0.689
Spine-Branch, gpt-5.4-mini
0.678
0.556
D Does a Weak Manager Degrade Spine-Branch?
We swap only the manager and hold everything else fixed, comparing the default claude-opus-4-8 with
the substantially weaker gpt-5.4-mini across all three CUA backbones. Table 7 reports the macro score
and success rate, with the Single-Agent result as reference.
Spine-Branch is moderately sensitive to manager quality, while its decomposition structure remains
robust.
Replacing opus-4-8 with gpt-5.4-mini reduces the macro score by 0.07–0.14 across backbones,
showing that manager strength matters. However, both managers produce graphs with nearly identical
structure (≈1.9 spine and ≈3.5 branch nodes per task), suggesting that the loss mainly stems from
weaker per-node instructions and aggregation rather than degenerate decompositions. Importantly, even
with the weak manager, Spine-Branch still outperforms the Single-Agent baseline on the two weaker
executors (Qwen3.6-27B: 0.682 vs. 0.585; gpt-5.4-mini: 0.678 vs. 0.596). Only on the strongest executor,
Qwen3.7-Plus, does the gain disappear, where the strong single agent leaves less room for coordination
gains. Overall, manager quality affects performance, but the Spine-Branch coordination scaffold remains
effective across managers.
26


Scale AI Research
E Case Study
Figure 5. Coordination graphs for the Babywearing-jacket task and Iceland Camper-Van Trip task. The graphs on
the left are from MACU and the graphs on the right belong to Spine-Branch.
27


Scale AI Research
Figure 6. Agent step distribution of Spine-Branch and MACU on Odysseys with Qwen3.6-27B as backbone.
MACU’s manager continuously re-plans (2.6 replans/task) and aggressively cancels underperforming subtasks:
10.8% of MACU subtasks abort within ≤10 steps, versus 3.5% for Spine-Branch (shaded bin). Because an aborted
subtask accrues almost no work, this pulls MACU’s mean steps-per-subtask down to 31.3 (vs. 40.3 for Spine-
Branch) and, despite MACU attempting more subtasks, leaves it with fewer CUA tokens (5.93 M vs. 6.69 M) and
fewer agent actions (250 vs. 334) per task. Spine-Branch fixes its plan up front and runs each subtask to completion,
so its heavier, uninterrupted execution costs more compute but yields far higher completion (success rate 44.0% vs.
28.5%; macro score 66.6% vs. 53.9%)
28
