Contextual Value Alignment via Multilayer Combinatorial Fusion
Yuanhong Wu⋆, Djallel Bouneffouf†, and D. Frank Hsu⋆
⋆Dept. of Computer and Information Science, Fordham University, New York, NY, USA
† T. J. Watson Research Center, IBM Research, Yorktown Heights, NY, USA
Abstract
Aligning large language models (LLMs) with human val-
ues remains a major challenge, especially for trustworthy AI.
While existing approaches such as RLHF, CAI, and their vari-
ants have achieved promising results, they often rely on a
single-agent framework and a unified reward system. This
limits their ability to capture ethical pluralism, adapt to di-
verse moral contexts, and reflect the dynamics of multi-agent
moral reasoning.
In this work, we propose a framework that utilizes multilayer
combinatorial fusion for contextual value alignment (MCF-
CVA). At the first layer of the framework, it instantiates mul-
tiple moral agents, each fine-tuned to represent a distinctive
value. Their outputs are then expanded combinatorially us-
ing both score- and rank-combinations as well as average and
weighted aggregations. These combined models are then re-
duced to the same number of initial moral agents. This expan-
sion and reduction (EAR) process continues for multi-layers
until a stopping criterion is reached.
The MCF-CVA framework leverages cognitive diversity be-
tween agents to mitigate conflicts and redundancies across
multiple agents, producing responses that better reflect con-
textual human values. The framework using the EAR algo-
rithm is performed on the dual architecture of Euclidean score
space and Kemeny rank space. Empirical evaluations demon-
strated that the proposed framework outperforms single-agent
baselines, multi-agent single-layer results, and previous ag-
gregation approaches on standard metrics, showing that the
MCF-CVA framework provides a robust and effective mech-
anism for advancing contextual value alignment in LLMs.
Introduction
The value alignment problem—ensuring that autonomous
systems act in accordance with human moral principles—
has emerged as one of the most pressing challenges in
the development of trustworthy AI (Russell, Dewey, and
Tegmark 2015; Ji et al. 2025). Traditional approaches have
treated alignment primarily as a form of preference infer-
ence, attempting to derive human values from behavioral
data or human feedback. However, as artificial agents be-
come more embedded in social and moral contexts, it is in-
creasingly evident that human morality is pluralistic, contex-
tual, and dynamic (Gabriel 2020). A single normative model
cannot adequately represent the diversity of moral reasoning
found across individuals, cultures, and situations.
A wide range of approaches have been developed to align
large language models with human values (Norhashim and
Hahn 2024; Singh et al. 2025; Pappas and Vassilakopoulou
2025; Ji et al. 2025; Li et al. 2026). For example, reinforce-
ment learning from human feedback (RLHF) trains a re-
ward model on human preference data and then optimizes
the policy against this learned reward (Ouyang et al. 2022).
Constitutional AI (CAI) aligns models by enforcing a fixed
set of normative principles, using those principles to guide
self-critique and AI-generated feedback during training (Bai
et al. 2022). However, these methods share a key limita-
tion: they all treat value alignment as a single-agent, single-
objective problem. This design cannot leverage the diversity
between distinct moral perspectives, nor can it explicitly rep-
resent or reason about disagreements among them. Yet hu-
man values are pluralistic and context-dependent: different
situations prioritize different values, and different individ-
uals or communities weight these values in different ways.
A single agent with a fixed objective is therefore ill-suited
to capture this structured pluralism or to support context-
sensitive value trade-offs.
To address this limitation, Wu, Bouneffouf, and Hsu
(2026) proposed a single-layer multi-agent value align-
ment framework, Value Alignment System using Combi-
natorial Fusion Analysis (VAS-CFA). In this paper, we ex-
tend the VAS-CFA to a multi-layer value alignment frame-
work, Multi-layer Combinatorial Fusion for Contextual
Value Alignment (MCF-CVA). After instantiating a set of
moderate size with diverse moral agents, each aligned with
a specific moral value, we apply CFA to quantify the diver-
sity between these agents and fuse their generated responses.
MCF is then used to perform multi-layer combinatorial fu-
sion using the expansion and reduction (EAR) algorithm
(Zhong et al. 2019). The MCF-CVA framework yields re-
sponses that are more faithfully aligned with human values
than other single layer results.
Combinatorial Fusion Analysis (CFA), proposed by Hsu,
Chung, and Kristal (2006); Hsu, Kristal, and Schweikert
(2024), is a robust model fusion paradigm that combines
multiple scoring systems by systematically varying combi-
nation size and weighting schemes. A key feature of CFA
is its notion of cognitive diversity, a diversity measure that
leverages both scores and ranks to quantify the dissimi-
larity in how different scoring systems represent informa-
1
arXiv:2608.07642v1  [cs.AI]  7 Aug 2026


tion. Cognitive diversity has been shown to be highly in-
formative for combining diverse models in practice (Hsu
et al. 2019). Multilayer Combinatorial Fusion (MCF) ex-
tends CFA by stacking multiple layers of CFA combina-
tions to form deeper fusion architectures, thereby more fully
exploiting the potential of model fusion across hierarchical
layers.
Moral Foundations Theory (MFT) is a widely used tool
for modeling moral pluralism and systematic variation in
moral judgments across individuals, cultures, and politi-
cal groups. It was developed by Haidt and Joseph (2004)
to explain how multiple “intuitive ethics” give rise to di-
verse but patterned moral concerns. In its original formu-
lation, MFT proposed five core moral foundations—Care,
Fairness, Loyalty, Authority, and Sanctity. This five-factor
structure has been widely applied and shows good psycho-
metric support (Graham et al. 2011; Graham, Haidt, and
Nosek 2009). Later work proposed Liberty as a candidate
sixth foundation. However, the Liberty foundation was in-
troduced later as a candidate sixth foundation rather than
part of the original core set, and its status as a distinct
foundation remains under active discussion (Graham et al.
2013). Much empirical work—especially factor-analytic and
cross-cultural validation studies of the Moral Foundations
Questionnaire—continues to adopt and support the origi-
nal five-foundation structure (De Buck and Pauwels 2023;
Do˘gruyol, Alper, and Yilmaz 2019). In this paper, we there-
fore adopt the original five foundations as a well-established
and widely used moral basis, and we utilize them by training
five independent moral agents, each aligned with one foun-
dation (Care, Fairness, Loyalty, Authority, Sanctity), which
serve as the base experts that our MCF-CVA framework later
combines.
Multilayer Combinatorial Fusion for Contextual Value
Alignment (MCF-CVA) introduced in this paper is a frame-
work that utilizes multi-agent moral reasoning through
multi-layer iterative fusion and refinement. At the first layer,
MCF-CVA instantiates multiple moral agents, each fine-
tuned to represent a distinct moral foundation—such as au-
thority, care, fairness, loyalty, and sanctity. Their outputs are
combined using CFA with both score-based and rank-based
fusion methods within a dual space of Euclidean (score)
and Kemeny (rank) representations. The system then applies
an Expansion-and-Reduction (EAR) algorithm to iteratively
fuse, evaluate, and prune agents based on their diversity
strength, repeating this process across layers until it stables.
Through this multilayer iterative process, MCF-CVA
evolves toward moral decisions that are simultaneously
contextually coherent and diversely informed. Our experi-
ments demonstrate that MCF-CVA consistently outperforms
single-agent and single-layer baselines across standard met-
rics, offering a principled approach for reconciling hetero-
geneous moral reasoning within large language models.
In summary, this work makes the following contributions:
1. A novel framework MCF-CVA was proposed to fuse
multiple moral agents across multiple iterative reason-
ing layers by constructing multiple scoring systems cor-
responding to the multiple moral agents, respectively.
2. Cognitive diversity was used to measure diversity be-
tween the scoring systems (moral agents).
3. An integration of combinatorial fusion analysis (CFA)
and the expansion and reduction (EAR) algorithm to fa-
cilitate adaptive multilayer aggregation in both Euclidean
score space and Kemeny rank space.
4. It was demonstrated that the MCF-CVA framework im-
proves moral coherence and is robust and effective over
prior contextual alignment methods.
In the following sections, we include: Related Work,
Multilayer Combinatorial Fusion, MCF-CVA Workflow, Re-
sults, Discussion, and Limitations followed by Conclusion.
Six appendices are also included: (A) Rank-score function
and cognitive diversity, (B) Kemeny rank space as the MCF-
CVA architecture, (C) Figure skating judgement, (D) EAR
algorithm and the MCF-CVA framework, (E) Performance
summary w.r.t. question q2835, and (F) A detailed example
of response decomposition in MCF-CVA workflow.
Related work
The value alignment problem (Russell, Dewey, and Tegmark
2015) aims to design AI systems whose goals and behavior
stay aligned with human values. For large language models,
one common strategy for value alignment is to fine-tune a
single policy with reinforcement learning from human feed-
back: for example, Wu et al. (2023) propose Fine-Grained
RLHF, which learns reward models from detailed human an-
notations (toxicity, factuality, relevance, etc.) and then opti-
mizes the model against this scalar reward signal to reduce
harmful or low-quality generations. Another widely adopted
algorithm is direct preference optimization (DPO) (Rafailov
et al. 2023), where a single language model is trained to pre-
fer human-preferred answers over rejected ones via a con-
trastive objective, thereby aligning the model to human pref-
erences without an explicit reward model or RL loop.
Beyond single-policy approaches, some work uses multi-
ple human or model sources in value alignment. Noothigattu
et al. (2018) learn a probabilistic model of societal prefer-
ences from large-scale Moral Machine data and, at decision
time, apply a swap-dominance voting rule to pick the action
that best reflects the learned social welfare function, effec-
tively aggregating many human “voters” into one ethical de-
cision. Du et al. (2023) use a multi-agent debate framework
where several language model instances independently gen-
erate answers and reasoning, then critique and debate each
other over multiple rounds before converging on a final re-
sponse. And Pang et al. (2024) introduce a self-alignment
framework where a single LLM performs multi-agent role-
playing simulations to model social interactions and conse-
quences, then uses these simulated critiques to revise its own
responses.
Dognin et al. (2025) propose contextual moral value
alignment, training several agents each associated with dif-
ferent moral values and learning a context-dependent ag-
gregator that selects or combines their responses based on
a moral profile for the user. This contextual aggregation
idea inspires our work. However, existing multi-source ap-
proaches aggregate signals without explicitly measuring or


exploiting diversity among moral agents. They do not quan-
tify how differently agents represent moral information. Our
MCF-CVA framework, as an extension to the VAS-CFA
framework (Wu, Bouneffouf, and Hsu 2026), builds on this
approach by quantifying diversity between moral agents and
using multilayer combinatorial fusion to systematically ex-
ploit that diversity when fusing their outputs.
Unlike prior ensemble or alignment techniques, our
framework
explicitly
quantifies
and
leverages
diver-
sity strength across moral agents, applying an Expan-
sion–Reduction process that iteratively fuses and prunes
models across both score and rank spaces.
Multilayer Combinatorial Fusion
Multilayer combinatorial fusion (MCF) employs the expan-
sion and reduction (EAR) algorithm multiple times until it
stables. The expansion step uses the CFA while the reduc-
tion step utilizes a sliding rule to select top combined mod-
els with large cognitive diversity. This section consists of:
(a) Combinatorial fusion analysis, and (b) multilayer com-
binatorial fusion (MCF) with the EAR algorithm.
Combinatorial Fusion Analysis
Combinatorial Fusion Analysis (CFA) provides methods
and workflows for combining multiple scoring systems
(MSS) (e.g., multiple classifier systems, multiple expert sys-
tems, multiple language models, and multiple agent sys-
tems) in computational learning and modeling, informat-
ics, and intelligent ML/AI systems (Hsu, Chung, and Kristal
2006; Hsu, Kristal, and Schweikert 2024). CFA character-
izes a scoring system A with a score function sA, a derived
rank function rA, and a function fA that relates normalized
score values to rank values.
Let A be a scoring system on the dataset D
=
{d1, . . . , dn}. Let sA : D →R be a score function. Rank
function rA : D →N is derived by sorting the score val-
ues and assigning an increasing rank value to the data item
in D on the decreasing score values. Rank–score function
(RSF) fA : N →R is defined as fA(i) = sA(r−1
A (i)) =
(sA ◦r−1
A )(i). See Figure A1(a) in Appendix A for the re-
lationship between these three functions for a scoring sys-
tem A (Hsu, Chung, and Kristal 2006). For scoring sys-
tems A and B, cognitive diversity (CD) between A and
B, CD(A, B), is defined as the difference between fA
and fB (Hsu et al. 2019): CD(A, B) = d(fA, fB) =
 Pn
i=1(fA(i) −fB(i))2/n
1/2. In addition, the diversity
strength of the scoring system A, DS(A), is the average
of CD(A, A′) between A and all other scoring system
A′ under consideration. Cognitive diversity CD(A,B) be-
tween scoring systems A and B measures the diversity be-
tween A and B by calculating the difference between rank-
score functions fA and fB. It is analogous to, but differ-
ent from, Pearson correlation (p), Spearman rho (ρ) corre-
lation, and Kendall tau (τ) correlation in statistics. Figure
A1(b) in Appendix A depicts their relationships and com-
parisons (Hsu et al. 2019; Hurley et al. 2020). Note that
the score function is defined in Euclidean space, whereas
the rank function—which handles rankings with or without
ties—operates in the Kemeny rank space. Further details on
the Kemeny rank space are provided in Appendix B.
The four combination schemes (average score combi-
nation (ASC), weighted score combination by diversity
strength (WSCDS), average rank combination (ARC), and
the weighted rank combination by diversity strength (WR-
CDS) are defined for each t ∈{2, 3, 4, 5} as below, respec-
tively.
sASC(di) =
P
Aj∈A′sAj(di)
t
(1)
sW SCDS(di) =
P
Aj∈A′sAj(di) · DS(Aj)
P
Aj∈A′DS(Aj)
(2)
sARC(di) =
P
Aj∈A′rAj(di)
t
(3)
sW RCDS(di) =
P
Aj∈A′rAj(di) ·
1
DS(Aj)
P
Aj∈A′
1
DS(Aj)
(4)
where A′ is any subset of the full scoring system set A =
{A1, · · · , A5} containing at least 2 elements, i.e., A′ ⊆A,
and ∥A′∥= t, with t ∈{2, 3, 4, 5}, sAj(di) and rAj(di)
are the score and rank assigned by scoring system Aj to the
data item di, respectively; DS(Aj) represents the diversity
strength of scoring system Aj.
CFA has been applied to a wide variety of domain ap-
plications in scientific discovery and decision making, in-
cluding more recent results in wireless network selection
(Kustiawan, Liu, and Hsu 2017), material science (Tang
et al. 2021), drug discovery (Jiang et al. 2023), sentiment
analysis (Patten et al. 2025), cybersecurity (Alfatemi et al.
2025; Owusu et al. 2025), Bitcoin price prediction (Wu et al.
2025), and text classification (Xu et al. 2025). It was shown
that rank combination tends to perform better than score
combination w.r.t. larger cognitive diversity (Hsu and Taksa
2005). An example of figure skating judgment is included
in Appendix C to illustrate score function, rank function,
rank–score function of a scoring system A, as well as score
and rank combinations, and cognitive diversity between two
scoring systems, A and B.
MCF with the EAR algorithm
Multilayer combinatorial fusion employs the expansion and
reduction (EAR) algorithm at each layer until it reaches to
the layer where there is almost no diversity between mod-
els. The pseudocode for EAR algorithm is in Algorithm D1
(Appendix D).We first construct the set of models to be
combined. With five models, the total number of nontriv-
ial model subsets is 25 −5 −1 = 26. Since each scoring
system consists of both a score function and a rank function,
we then extract the corresponding score and rank functions
from each system separately. For each input type (scores or
ranks), we aggregate them using either average combination
or weighted combination by diversity strength, as defined in
formulas (1)-(4).


Aggregate top unit pair(s)
step (a) Response generation
step (b) Formation of scoring systems
step (c) MCF = CFA + EAR
step (d) Aggregation
Figure 1: The workflow for the MCF-CVA framework.
Table 1: Number of questions on each layer for MCF.
#Layer
Number of questions
Layer 1
1552
Layer 2
5457
Layer 3
2988
Layer 4
1056
Layer 5
248
Layer 6
74
Total
11375
The expansion step employs CFA to score combination
and rank combination as well as average combination and
weighted combination of the initial (or previous) layers to
obtain f(t) = (2t −1 −t) × 4 models. The reduction step
uses the sliding rule to reduce the f(t) models to t models
based on diversity strength at that layer. This process con-
tinues to the next layer until there is almost no diversity be-
tween models.
MCF-CVA workflow
We propose a new framework that integrates Multilayer
Combinatorial Fusion into context value alignment (MCF-
CVA). Figure 1 shows the main steps for the proposed
framework.
In step (a) of our MCF-CVA workflow, we fine-
tuned five value-specific agents–Authority (A), Care (B),
Fairness (C), Loyalty (D), and Sanctity
(E)–starting
from the OpenAssistant/oasst-sft-4-pythia-12b-epoch-3.5
SFT checkpoint, using Direct Preference Optimization
(DPO) with QLoRA (Dettmers et al. 2023) on a single
NVIDIA A100-40GB. The Moral Integrity Corpus (MIC)
(Ziems et al. 2022) is used for fine-tuning the individual
agents. MIC dataset provides a large set of prompt-response
pairs of 113.8K with human revised answers and rich ethical
annotations. It uses fixed data splits of 91.0K/11.4K/11.4K
samples for train/validation/test. Each moral agent was
trained independently from the same base model using dif-
ferent subset of the dataset for 1 epoch with β = 0.1, learn-
ing rate 1 × 10−5, per-device batch size 2 and 8 gradient-
accumulation steps. Specifically, each prompt-response pair
is annotated with one or more moral value labels. We parti-
tion the dataset into five different subsets, each of which cor-
responds to a moral value. We then fine-tune the same base
model independently on each subset, resulting in five moral
agents, each aligned with a specific moral value. QLoRA
loads the 12B base in 4-bit NF4 and trains only LoRA
adapters, enabling practical single-GPU fine-tuning. Each
fine-tuned agent in step (a) generates a response for each
prompt in the test set.
Step (b) decomposes each agent’s output into moral units,
where each unit expresses a single moral claim in the form
of a phrase or short sentence. The motivation for this de-
composition is that a response often contains multiple moral
claims, reflecting moral pluralism. By breaking a complex
moral response into distinct, stand-alone claims, we can bet-
ter identify and manage moral conflict while also reducing
redundancy. An additional advantage is that the final re-
sponse length can be controlled by combining different num-
bers of moral units. This decomposition is performed us-
ing GPT-4.1-nano. We then pool all units together, and
form all possible unit pairs by concatenating two units. A
detailed example of response decomposition into units and
the formation of moral unit pool is provided in Appendix F.
The unit pairs will be considered as data items in multilayer
combination fusion. To score each unit pair for its align-
ment within each of the five moral values, we train a “moral
classifier.” Concretely, we encode the human-revised answer
using SentenceTransformer (all-MiniLM-L6-v2) and train a
logistic regression model for multi-label prediction. Given
a pair of moral units, the classifier returns five scores, one
per moral value, yielding the scoring table with one row at
the end of step (b). We stack the tables together for all data


Table 2: Performance summary for the best single models and the best combined models for layer 1,2,3,4 and 5 on question
q822, respectively. (a: ASC; b: WSCDS; c: ASC&WSCDS; d: ARC, e: WRCDS; f: ARC&WRCDS; g: all four types of
combination.)
#Layer
Model type
Best model
F1 BERTScore
Layer 1
single
B
0.8582
combined
CE (c), ACE (c), CDE (c), ACDE (c)
0.8621
Layer 2
single
D, E
0.8594
combined
AD (g), AE (g), DE (g), ACD (e), ACE (f),
ADE(g), ACDE (f)
0.8659
Layer 3
single
A, C, D, E
0.8521
combined
AB (f), DE (g)
0.8596
Layer 4
single
B, C, D, E
0.8521
combined
AD (c, e), AE (c), BC (g), ADE (b)
0.8596
Layer 5
single
A, B, C, D
0.8596
combined
CD (g), BCD (d)
0.8659
items (unit pairs) to form a big scoring table. Interpreting
each column in that table as a value-specific scoring system,
we obtain five scoring systems w.r.t. the five models A, B,
C, D, and E for the five moral agents, respectively. It’s im-
portant to note that each prompt in the test set yields a set of
five scoring systems and the number of data items may vary
across prompts.
In step (c), we fuse the five scoring systems using MCF.
The EAR (Expansion-and-Reduction) algorithm first ex-
pands the five systems into 104 scoring systems via four
combination schemes (ASC, ARC, WSCDS, WRCDS), and
then applies a sliding rule to reduce back to five systems
(see Algorithm D1 in Appendix D). Because MCF combines
models combinatorially, we enumerate model sets of sizes
k ∈{2, 3, 4, 5}. For each k, we construct all
 5
k

subsets
from the five systems, yielding 10+10+5+1 = 26 distinct
model sets in total. For each set, we consider both score-
based and rank-based combinations. In Algorithm D1, we
extract the score and rank functions, respectively, from each
scoring system (each system comprises a score function, a
rank function, and a rank–score function). We then apply the
four combination methods within each model set, producing
four fused models per set. Hence, the expansion stage yields
4 × 26 = 104 combined models prior to reduction.
For reduction, we compute each model’s diversity
strength across the 104 models. To reduce to five models, we
rank all 104 models by diversity strength in descending or-
der. We then apply a sliding-rule selection: starting at the top
of ranking, we sweep downward until we obtain five scoring
systems that have the highest diversity strength; these con-
stitute the reduced set. We repeat the expansion–reduction
cycle on this reduced set until a stopping criterion is met: ei-
ther the maximum diversity strength falls below 0.05 or the
number of layers reaches six. At the final layer, we apply av-
erage rank combination to fuse the five models into a single
final model.
In step (d), this single final model is used for unit ag-
gregation. The number of unit pairs to be aggregated can
be adjusted according to the desired response length. For a
shorter answer, only the top-ranked unit pair is aggregated,
whereas for a longer and more morally rich response, the
top two or three unit pairs can be combined. The aggrega-
tion is performed by GPT-4.1-nano. Note that sentence
decomposition and unit aggregation used the same language
model. Since the key part of our framework is the MCF pro-
cess, we used a small off-the-shelf LLM without additional
fine-tuning for both decomposition and aggregation. The re-
sulting response is then evaluated against the ground-truth
response using F1 BERTScore. The score obtained is re-
ported as the performance of the MCF-CVA workflow for
that question. This process is repeated for every question in
the test set. The pseudocode for MCF-CVA is in Algorithm
D2 (Appendix D).
We note that each data item corresponds to a unit pair,
and aggregation over unit pairs yields the final response for
a prompt. However, response decomposition typically pro-
duces many candidate units, making the choice of which two
units to aggregate non-trivial, as units may be redundant or
conflicting. MCF-CVA addresses this challenge by provid-
ing a systematic mechanism to leverage the diversity of scor-
ing systems—through four distinct combinations—thereby
promoting the more informative unit pair.
Results
In this section, we report results for the MCF-CVA frame-
work: (a) Results evaluated on the Moral Integrity Corpus
(MIC) dataset; (b) Ablation results for the framework to
show MCF is the key for performance gain; (c) Results of
applying MCF to value alignment classification task on the
Commonsense dataset.
Results on MIC dataset
Table 1 summarizes the number of questions that stop at
each layer. A question is said to stop at a layer if it satis-
fies the MCF stopping criterion and halts at that layer. Over-
all, 1,552 questions stop at Layer 1, while 9,823 questions
continue beyond the first layer. About half of them (5,457)
stop at Layer 2, 2,988 at Layer 3, and 1,056 at Layer 4. And
even 248 questions go to Layer 5 while Layer 6 has 74 ques-
tions. These findings indicate that MCF-CVA adapts at the
question level: different questions may continue at different


1
4
7
10
13
16
19
22
25
28
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q822 (layer 1)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
4
7
10
13
16
19
22
25
28
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q822 (layer 2)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
4
7
10
13
16
19
22
25
28
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q822 (layer 3)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
4
7
10
13
16
19
22
25
28
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q822 (layer 4)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
4
7
10
13
16
19
22
25
28
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q822 (layer 5)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
Figure 2: Rank-score function graph for 5 layers on question q822.
depths, which can make MCF more effective than a single-
layer CFA. We provide two illustrative examples q822 and
q2835. For each example, we plot the rank–score function
graph and the performance of best combined models of each
layer. The question q822 that stops at Layer 5 appears in Fig-
ure 2. The second example q2835 that stops at Layer 6 is
included in Appendix E. From Figure 2, we observe how
the rank–score functions evolve across five layers; their di-
versity decreases gradually through the five layers. Table 2
reports the best performance at each layer for question q822,
listing both the top individual model(s) and the best com-
bined model(s). The best individual model at the beginning
is B with an F1 BERTScore of 0.8582; through multilayer
iteration the question stops at Layer 5, achieving 0.8659.
Then, we compare our MCF-CVA model performance
against individual moral agents in Table 3. The first row re-
ports test performance for the five single agents. The best
agent is Loyalty with a score of 0.8663.
Next, we have some other multi-agent models. On the
same dataset, prior multi-agent methods CVA–GS and
CVA–GS–DYN report a BERT score of 0.8728 and 0.8754
(Dognin et al. 2025), and our previous model single-layer
VAS-CVA using a single unit using CFA (Wu, Bouneffouf,
and Hsu 2026) has a performance of 0.8849. Multi-agent
debate improves value alignment through an iterative debate
process. Following Du et al. (2023), we use the five single
agents as debaters and implement the debate in 2 rounds.
We consider this debate as a 2-layer multi-agent model. In
each round, every agent is given the responses of the other
four agents as additional context and is asked to revise its
own response accordingly. The multi-agent debate frame-
work achieves a performance of 0.8698, which is slightly
higher than that of the best individual agent.
We then evaluate the single-layer variant of the MCF-
CVA framework. For each question in the test set, we use
the model in the first layer (step (c) in Figure 1). The final
performance is obtained by averaging over all questions. The
single-layer MCF-CVA achieves an accuracy of 0.9007, out-
performing all individual base models and prior multi-agent
models. We next evaluate our most powerful model, multi-
layer MCF-CVA. The F1 BERT score achieved is 0.9098,
which is almost 1% performance gain compared to the
single-layer counterpart. In sum, MCF-CVA outperforms in-
dividual agents, single-layer variant, and prior multi-agent
performance.
Figure 3 provides a visual comparison of individual mod-
els, existing multi-agent fusion baselines, and the proposed
MCF-CVA models. The results show a clear progression
from individual agents to existing fusion methods and fi-
nally to the proposed MCF-CVA models. This visual pat-
tern makes the improvement trend more direct than the table,
showing that fusion methods generally improve over single
agents, while MCF-CVA further advances the performance
beyond existing fusion baselines.


One notable observation from Figure 3 is both Multiagent
Debate and the proposed MCF-CVA model are multi-agent,
multi-layer frameworks in the third group, but their perfor-
mance differs substantially. We believe this large difference
may be attributed to the underlying architecture.
Table 3: Performance comparison of individual agents,
prior models and the proposed MCF-CVA models. Agent
A, B, C, D, and E refer to authority, care, fairness, loyalty,
and sanctity, respectively.
Method
Model
F1
BERTScore
Single model
A
0.8569
B
0.8533
C
0.8628
D
0.8663
E
0.8653
Dognin et al. (2025)
CVA-GS
0.8728
CVA-GS-DYN
0.8754
Wu,
Bouneffouf,
and Hsu (2026)
VAS-CFA
0.8849
Multi-agent debate
–
0.8698
MCF-CVA
single-layer
0.9007
multi-layer
0.9098
B
A
C
E
D
CVA-GS
CVA-GS-DYN
VAS-CFA
Multiagent Debate
single-layer variant
MCF-CVA
0.8
0.82
0.84
0.86
0.88
0.9
0.92
F1 BERTScore
Figure 3: Comparison of MCF-CVA models with individual
models (blue), other single-layer multi-agent fusion mod-
els (pink), and the multi-layer multi-agent debate model
(green).
Finally, we compare the performance of the MCF models
with the base models for each question, as shown in Fig-
ure 4. Each pink point represents the performance of the fi-
nal MCF model for a single question, and the dataset con-
tains 11,375 questions in total. The black line represents the
performance of the best base model on the same question.
The questions are sorted in descending order according to
the best base-model performance. As shown in the figure,
most pink points lie above the black line, indicating that the
MCF models outperform the base models for the majority of
questions, although a small number of cases fall below the
line. This result demonstrates that MCF not only improves
the average performance compared with the base models (as
shown in Table 3) but also achieves better performance on
most individual questions.
1
2001
4001
6001
8001
10001 11375
Questions (sorted by best base model in descending order)
0.70
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
BERTScore F1
Best base model 
Best model in MCF
Figure 4: Performance comparison for best base models and
best MCF models across all prompts in the test set.
Ablation study
Next, we conduct an ablation study to evaluate the contribu-
tion of each component in our framework. We also examine
the effect of using different numbers of moral unit pairs. The
results are reported in Table 4.
In the original MCF-CVA framework, we use the top 1
unit pair, which contains two moral units, for aggregation
and evaluation. However, when the input context is more
complex, two moral units may not be sufficient to capture
the full moral meaning of the response. Therefore, we also
test the setting of using the top 2 unit pairs. As shown in
Table 4, using 2 unit pairs decreases the BERTScore from
0.9098 to 0.8936, a drop of about 1.6%. However, this result
is still relatively strong compared with the previous base-
lines. One possible reason for this decrease is that the target
responses in the MIC test dataset are usually short, suggest-
ing that the moral context is relatively simple and may not
require many moral units. Adding more unit pairs may in-
troduce extra information or noise, which slightly reduces
performance.
We then remove the MCF component from the frame-
work. Without MCF, the framework cannot rank and se-
lect the most effective moral unit pairs. Therefore, we ran-
domly select 1 or 2 unit pairs for aggregation and evalua-
tion. When randomly selecting 1 unit pair, the BERTScore
drops to 0.8827, which is a clear decrease compared with the
full MCF-CVA result. When randomly selecting 2 unit pairs,
the score further decreases to 0.8701. These results show
that MCF plays an important role in identifying high-quality
moral unit pairs and improving the final response quality.
Next, we remove the aggregation component. In this set-
ting, the selected unit pairs are evaluated directly without be-


Table 4: Ablation study of the proposed framework by re-
moving decomposition, MCF, or aggregation components.
Model
Moral Units
BERTScore
MCF-CVA
top 1 unit pair
0.9098
top 2 unit pairs
0.8936
w/o MCF
random 1 unit pair
0.8827
random 2 unit pair
0.8701
w/o aggre.
top 1 unit pair
0.9075
top 2 unit pair
0.8916
w/o decomp. +
MCF
–
0.8621
ing aggregated into a final response. The performance only
slightly decreases from 0.9098 to 0.9075 when using the top
1 unit pair, and from 0.8936 to 0.8916 when using the top 2
unit pairs. This suggests that aggregation contributes to the
final framework, but its effect is relatively small compared
with the MCF component.
Finally, we remove both decomposition and MCF. Since
MCF operates on decomposed moral units, removing de-
composition also prevents the use of MCF. In this setting,
we directly aggregate the original responses and evaluate the
result. The BERTScore drops to 0.8621, which is lower than
the best base models. This result indicates that directly com-
bining full responses without moral-unit decomposition and
MCF is not effective.
Overall, the ablation study shows that MCF is the key
component driving the performance improvement of the pro-
posed framework. Decomposition provides the necessary
structure for MCF to operate on moral units, while aggre-
gation further refines the selected units into a smooth final
response.
Results on Commonsense dataset
Another common contextual value alignment task, beyond
question answering, is value alignment classification: given
a conversational context, the goal is to determine whether
the response is aligned with human values. Our MCF-CVA
framework can be adapted to this type of task. The shared
core remains the use of MCF to fuse multiple scoring sys-
tems. In this subsection, we report the results on the Com-
monsense dataset.
The Commonsense Morality subset of the ETHICS
benchmark contains scenario descriptions based on widely
shared human moral intuitions regarding whether an ac-
tion is clearly wrong (Hendrycks et al. 2020). The dataset
includes both short (1–2 sentence) examples collected
via Amazon Mechanical Turk and longer, multi-paragraph
narratives curated from online forums. Labels were ob-
tained through majority voting among multiple English-
speaking annotators. The dataset is provided with a stan-
dard train/development split for supervised learning and a
held-out test set for evaluation, making it suitable for train-
ing and assessing models’ ability to capture commonsense
moral norms in open-world contextual scenarios.
The Commonsense dataset has two labels: 0 for not
morally wrong (aligned) and 1 for clearly morally wrong (
misaligned), so it is a binary classification problem. The goal
is to predict whether an action “clearly should not have been
done”. We apply MCF to combine five diverse base mod-
els: A) Linear SVM, B) XGBoost, C) Random Forest, D)
RoBERTa-large, and E) DeBERTa-large. For the traditional
ML models (A–C), we encode text using TF–IDF features,
split the developement set into train/validation (10% vali-
dation). For the language models (D–E), we fine-tune pre-
trained transformers by tokenizing text with the model’s own
tokenizer. The model diversity is strengthened by the differ-
ent feature encodings (TF–IDF vs transformer tokenization).
Finally, we run the MCF method iteratively until the stop-
ping criterion is met.
The rank-score function graph for Commensense dataset
is shown in Figure 5. We can see the cognitive diversity be-
tween models in each layer shrinks across layers. The layer-
1 rank-score function graph of model D (RoBERTa-large)
and E (DeBERTa-large) are very close to each other while
models A, B, and C cluster together. This indicates strong
diversity between traditional ML models and language mod-
els, but the diversity within each group is relatively small.
Table 5: Best model performance comparison for each layer
on Commensense dataset.
Model type
Model
Accuracy
Layer 1
single
E
0.8970
combined
BCE(ASC)
0.9331
Layer 2
single
A
0.8988
combined
ABE(ASC)
0.9243
Layer 3
single
D
0.9166
combined
CDE(WSCDS)
0.9220
Hendrycks et al.
(2020)
single
RoBERTa-
large
0.9040
BERT-large
0.8850
Table 5 presents the performance for the best base model
and best combined model for each layer. We can see the best
base model in the first layer is model E with accuracy of
0.8970. The best combined model in the first layer is BCE
by average score combination, which achieves accuracy of
0.9331. It’s a big improvement. In the second layer, the per-
formance for the best base model is 0.8988 while the per-
formance is 0.9243 for the best combined model. The MCF
stops at the third layer with the final accuracy of 0.9220.
We compare our final performance on layer 3 with the result
from Hendrycks et al. (2020). The final accuracy of 0.9220
exceeds the result reported in prior study, demonstrating the
effectiveness of the MCF approach.
Combining all results together, multilayer combinatorial
fusion can be effectively applied to both contextual value
alignment tasks: question answering and alignment classifi-
cation. In question answering, responses are split into units
to construct scoring systems whereas in classification, the
base models can directly output scores. The EAR algorithm
is followed to iteratively expand and reduce the scoring sys-


Figure 5: Rank-score function graph for Commensense dataset.
tems until the stopping condition is reached.
Discussion
One important design choice in MCF-CVA is that the frame-
work combines moral units rather than full agent responses.
A complete response often contains several distinct moral
claims. Directly aggregating whole responses may there-
fore mix together incompatible or repetitive meanings, mak-
ing it harder to identify which parts of different agents are
genuinely complementary. By decomposing a response into
smaller stand-alone moral units, MCF-CVA creates a more
structured representation of moral content, so that fusion
operates on semantically cleaner building blocks. This de-
sign is also consistent with the role of decomposition in our
workflow: it helps isolate conflict, reduce redundancy, and
gives the framework direct control over the final response
length through the number of selected unit pairs. In this
sense, moral units provide an intermediate granularity that
is more informative than tokens but more manageable than
complete responses.
A related question is why we use unit pairs rather than
single units or larger groups such as triples. The reason is
both methodological and practical. In CFA, the scoring sys-
tems require a set of data items to compare and rank. If a sin-
gle unit were treated as one data item, the pool would often
be too limited to support robust fusion. At the other extreme,
forming all possible triple-unit groups would substantially
increase computational cost. More importantly, triple group-
ing would make response-length control less flexible: select-
ing one triple already yields three units, while selecting two
triples yields six units, which may be too coarse for generat-
ing responses of different lengths. Unit pairs provide a useful
middle ground. They expand the candidate space enough for
meaningful scoring and ranking, but remain computation-
ally feasible. They also offer finer control over final answer
length, since longer responses can be produced by aggregat-
ing more pairs. Thus, the use of unit pairs is not arbitrary; it
reflects a balance between representational adequacy, com-
putational tractability, and controllable generation.
Another central design choice is the set of moral values
used to instantiate the base agents. In this work, we adopt
the five canonical moral foundations—Care, Fairness, Loy-
alty, Authority, and Sanctity—because they provide a well-
established and widely used basis for modeling moral plural-
ism, and we already notes that the original five-foundation
structure remains the most stable starting point compared
with later additions such as Liberty. At the same time, our
framework does not assume that more moral values are al-
ways better. The goal of MCF-CVA is not simply to maxi-
mize the number of base agents, but to select agents with suf-
ficient diversity. Additional values such as Liberty or Hon-
esty could be incorporated in future extensions, but only if
they contribute meaningfully different moral perspectives. If
newly added values overlap too strongly with existing ones,
their orthogonality is limited, and the benefit of adding them
may be small. This suggests an important future direction:
instead of asking how many moral values can be included,
we should ask which subsets of moral values are most di-
verse, most complementary, and most useful for contextual
alignment. More broadly, this raises a deeper question for
value alignment research: whether effective pluralistic align-
ment requires a large inventory of moral values, or whether a
smaller but carefully chosen set of sufficiently distinct foun-
dations is already enough to capture most of the practical
gains.
One question of great interest in computational learn-
ing and ensemble methods is: How many base models (or
agents, scoring systems) one should use? Although it may
depend on the domain application, an ideal number of base
models is 4 ≤n ≤6 as long as the base models are rela-
tively good (close to the target) and diverse. Wang and Wang
(2001) demonstrated that the distance between n combined
models (scoring systems) and the target sharply decreases
at n between 3 and 4. Adding more base models may still
improve the performance. But the principle of diminishing
return kicks in.
One more issue is tie ranking (or tie scoring). If a scor-
ing system A on n data items has ties w.r.t. score function
values sA, then the rank function rA is not a permutation
of the n elements {1, 2, 3, · · · }. In this case, a ranking with


ties is a node in Kemeny rank space Kn (Figure B4, Ap-
pendix B2), which is a superset of the Bubble sort Cayley
graph space Bn (Appendix B1). In such a case, a rank func-
tion with ties is represented as a matrix instead of an array
(Emond and Mason 2002). We note that tie rankings do oc-
cur even it’s not often. In current work, we resolved tie rank-
ing by taking average of the rank numbers. Hence, CFA and
MCF are performed in the Bubble sort Cayley graph space
(Appendix B1).
Limitations
While the results of MCF-CVA are encouraging, several lim-
itations remain and point to important directions for future
work. First, the core iterative mechanism of our framework,
namely the Expansion-and-Reduction (EAR) algorithm, is
currently supported primarily by empirical evidence rather
than a full theoretical analysis. In the present work, the mul-
tilayer process stops when either the maximum diversity
strength falls below 0.05 or the number of layers reaches
six. Empirically, we observe that diversity usually decreases
as the iterations proceed, and this trend can be visualized
through the rank-score function graphs across layers. How-
ever, we do not yet have a closed-form characterization of
the EAR dynamics, nor a formal analysis of how diversity
strength evolves over iterations or under what conditions
convergence behavior can be guaranteed.
A second limitation concerns evaluation. As an initial
study of multilayer combinatorial fusion for value align-
ment in LLMs, this paper uses F1 BERTScore as the main
automatic metric for comparing generated responses with
reference answers. This provides a useful first view of re-
sponse quality, but it does not fully capture all aspects of
value alignment. Future work should broaden the evaluation
framework by incorporating additional automatic metrics
such as ROUGE-L and BLEURT. More importantly, human
evaluation will be essential for assessing dimensions that au-
tomatic metrics cannot fully measure. Expanding evaluation
along these directions would provide a more comprehen-
sive assessment of the strengths of MCF-CVA while helping
identify where the framework can be further improved.
Conclusion
This paper proposed the MCF-CVA framework, which
integrates multi-agent moral reasoning with multilayer
combinatorial fusion. By leveraging cognitive diversity
among value-specific agents and applying the EAR algo-
rithm across multiple layers, MCF-CVA dynamically refines
moral judgments through both score and rank aggregation in
Euclidean and Kemeny spaces.
Our results demonstrate that MCF-CVA achieves supe-
rior performance compared to single-agent and multi-agent
baselines. The multilayer fusion process enables the model
to evolve toward contextually coherent and morally pluralis-
tic decisions while maintaining diversity strength across lay-
ers. Empirical evaluations show consistent improvements in
alignment quality, indicating that multilayer aggregation of-
fers a scalable pathway toward more context-sensitive and
trustworthy AI systems.
Beyond its empirical results, MCF-CVA contributes con-
ceptually to the study of computational moral diversity. It
formalizes how moral agents with different normative per-
spectives can be combined into a single coherent decision-
making system, providing a mathematical and algorithmic
foundation for pluralistic alignment. The dual-space formu-
lation further bridges moral reasoning and combinatorial
optimization, linking ethics, information fusion, and multi-
agent learning under a unified framework.
Future work will extend MCF-CVA along several di-
rections. First, incorporating additional moral dimensions
and dynamic weighting of moral foundations could enhance
adaptability to novel cultural or situational contexts. Second,
human-in-the-loop evaluation of moral coherence will help
assess whether multilayer fusion aligns with human moral
intuitions beyond static benchmarks. Finally, we aim to ex-
plore applications of MCF-CVA in collaborative agent sys-
tems and autonomous decision-making, where reconciling
diverse moral reasoning is essential for collective intelli-
gence.
Overall, MCF-CVA represents a principled step toward
the operationalization of moral pluralism in large language
models and offers a robust foundation for future research in
multi-agent value alignment.
References
Akbari, S.; and Escobedo, A. R. 2023. Beyond kemeny rank
aggregation: A parameterizable-penalty framework for ro-
bust ranking aggregation with ties. Omega, 119: 102893.
Alfatemi, A.; Rahouti, M.; Hsu, D. F.; Schweikert, C.;
Ghani, N.; Solyman, A.; and Assaqty, M. I. S. 2025. Iden-
tifying distributed denial of service attacks through multi-
model deep learning fusion and combinatorial analysis.
Journal of Network and Systems Management, 33(1): 8.
Bai, Y.; Kadavath, S.; Kundu, S.; Askell, A.; Kernion, J.;
Jones, A.; Chen, A.; Goldie, A.; Mirhoseini, A.; McKinnon,
C.; et al. 2022. Constitutional AI: Harmlessness from AI
feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.08073.
Cocho, G.; Rodr´ıguez, R. F.; S´anchez, S.; Flores, J.; Pineda,
C.; and Gershenson, C. 2019. Rank-frequency distribution
of natural languages: A difference of probabilities approach.
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 532:
121795.
De Buck, A.; and Pauwels, L. J. 2023. Moral foundations
questionnaire and moral foundations sacredness scale: As-
sessing the factorial structure of the Dutch translations. Psy-
chologica Belgica, 63(1): 92.
Dettmers, T.; Pagnoni, A.; Holtzman, A.; and Zettlemoyer,
L. 2023.
Qlora: Efficient finetuning of quantized llms.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:
10088–10115.
Diaconis, P. 1988. Group representations in probability and
statistics, volume 11 of Lecture Notes–Monograph Series.
Institute of Mathematical Statistics.
Dognin, P.; Rios, J.; Luss, R.; Sattigeri, P.; Liu, M.; Padhi, I.;
Riemer, M.; Nagireddy, M.; Varshney, K.; and Bouneffouf,


D. 2025.
Contextual value alignment.
In ICASSP 2025-
2025 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 1–5. IEEE.
Do˘gruyol, B.; Alper, S.; and Yilmaz, O. 2019.
The five-
factor model of the moral foundations theory is stable across
WEIRD and non-WEIRD cultures. Personality and Individ-
ual Differences, 151: 109547.
Du, Y.; Li, S.; Torralba, A.; Tenenbaum, J. B.; and Mordatch,
I. 2023.
Improving factuality and reasoning in language
models through multiagent debate. In Forty-first Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning.
Emond, E. J.; and Mason, D. W. 2002. A new rank cor-
relation coefficient with application to the consensus rank-
ing problem. Journal of Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis,
11(1): 17–28.
Gabriel, I. 2020. Artificial intelligence, values, and align-
ment. Minds and Machines, 30(3): 411–437.
Good, I. 1975. The number of orderings of n candidates
when ties are permitted. The Fibonacci Quarterly, 13(1):
11–18.
Graham, J.; Haidt, J.; Koleva, S.; Motyl, M.; Iyer, R.; Woj-
cik, S. P.; and Ditto, P. H. 2013. Moral foundations theory:
The pragmatic validity of moral pluralism. In Advances in
experimental social psychology, volume 47, 55–130. Else-
vier.
Graham, J.; Haidt, J.; and Nosek, B. A. 2009. Liberals and
conservatives rely on different sets of moral foundations.
Journal of personality and social psychology, 96(5): 1029.
Graham, J.; Nosek, B. A.; Haidt, J.; Iyer, R.; Koleva, S.; and
Ditto, P. H. 2011. Mapping the moral domain. Journal of
personality and social psychology, 101(2): 366.
Gross, O. A. 1962. Preferential arrangements. The American
Mathematical Monthly, 69(1): 4–8.
Haidt, J.; and Joseph, C. 2004.
Intuitive ethics: How
innately prepared intuitions generate culturally variable
virtues. Daedalus, 133(4): 55–66.
Hendrycks, D.; Burns, C.; Basart, S.; Critch, A.; Li, J.; Song,
D.; and Steinhardt, J. 2020. Aligning ai with shared human
values. arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.02275.
Hsu, D. F.; Chung, Y.-S.; and Kristal, B. S. 2006. Combina-
torial fusion analysis: methods and practices of combining
multiple scoring systems. In Advanced Data Mining Tech-
nologies in Bioinformatics, 32–62.
Hsu, D. F.; Kristal, B. S.; Hao, Y.; and Schweikert, C.
2019. Cognitive diversity: A measurement of dissimilarity
between multiple scoring systems. Journal of Interconnec-
tion Networks, 19(01): 1940001.
Hsu, D. F.; Kristal, B. S.; and Schweikert, C. 2024. Combi-
natorial fusion analysis. Computer, 57(09): 96–100.
Hsu, D. F.; Shapiro, J.; and Taksa, I. 2002. Methods of data
fusion in information retrieval: Rank vs. score combination.
DIMACS Technical Report, 58: 662–667.
Hsu, D. F.; and Taksa, I. 2005. Comparing rank and score
combination methods for data fusion in information re-
trieval. Information Retrieval, 8(3): 449–480.
Hurley, L.; Kristal, B. S.; Sirimulla, S.; Schweikert, C.; and
Hsu, D. F. 2020. Multi-layer combinatorial fusion using cog-
nitive diversity. IEEE Access, 9: 3919–3935.
Ji, J.; Qiu, T.; Chen, B.; Zhou, J.; Zhang, B.; Hong, D.; Lou,
H.; Wang, K.; Duan, Y.; He, Z.; et al. 2025. Ai alignment:
A contemporary survey. ACM Computing Surveys, 58(5):
1–38.
Jiang, N.; Quazi, M.; Schweikert, C.; Hsu, D.; Oprea, T.; and
Sirimulla, S. 2023.
Enhancing ADMET property models
performance through combinatorial fusion analysis. Chem-
Rxiv; doi:10.26434/chemrxiv-2023-dh70x.
Kemeny, J. G.; and Snell, J. L. 1962a. Mathematical Mod-
els in the Social Sciences, chapter Preference Rankings: An
Axiomatic Approach.
Kemeny, J. G.; and Snell, L. 1962b.
Preference ranking:
an axiomatic approach. Mathematical models in the social
sciences, 9–23.
Kuncheva, L. I. 2004. Combining Pattern Classifiers: Meth-
ods and Algorithms. Wiley. ISBN 0-471-21078-1.
Kustiawan, I.; Liu, C.-Y.; and Hsu, D. F. 2017.
Vertical
handoff decision using fuzzification and combinatorial fu-
sion. IEEE Communications Letters, 21(9): 2089–2092.
Li, X.; Jiang, Q.; Jiang, L.; Zhang, S.; and Hu, S. 2026. The
landscape of AI alignment: A comprehensive review of the-
ories and methods. International Journal of Pattern Recog-
nition and Artificial Intelligence, 40(03): 2539001.
Marmor, Y. N.; Gadrich, T.; and Bashkansky, E. 2021. Accu-
racy of multi-experts’ prioritization under Mallows’ model
of errors creation. Quality Engineering, 33(2): 286–299.
Noothigattu, R.; Gaikwad, S.; Awad, E.; Dsouza, S.; Rah-
wan, I.; Ravikumar, P.; and Procaccia, A. 2018. A voting-
based system for ethical decision making. In Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 32.
Norhashim, H.; and Hahn, J. 2024.
Measuring human-ai
value alignment in large language models. In Proceedings of
the AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society, vol-
ume 7, 1063–1073.
Ouyang, L.; Wu, J.; Jiang, X.; Almeida, D.; Wainwright, C.;
Mishkin, P.; Zhang, C.; Agarwal, S.; Slama, K.; Ray, A.;
et al. 2022. Training language models to follow instructions
with human feedback. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 35: 27730–27744.
Owusu, E.; Rahouti, M.; Verma, D.; Xin, Y.; Hsu, D. F.; and
Schweikert, C. 2025. Generalizable Multi-Model Fusion for
Multi-Class DoS Detection Using Cognitive Diversity and
Rank-Score Analysis. ACM Transactions on Privacy and
Security, 28(3): 1–37.
Pang, X.; Tang, S.; Ye, R.; Xiong, Y.; Zhang, B.; Wang, Y.;
and Chen, S. 2024. Self-alignment of large language models
via multi-agent social simulation. In ICLR 2024 Workshop
on Large Language Model (LLM) Agents.
Pappas, I. O.; and Vassilakopoulou, P. 2025. Human Value
Alignment in AI. In Handbook of Human-Centered Artifi-
cial Intelligence, 1–33. Springer.


Patten, S.; Chen, P.-Y.; Schweikert, C.; and Hsu, D. F. 2025.
Enhancing Sentiment Classification with Machine Learn-
ing and Combinatorial Fusion. In 2025 IEEE Conference
on Pervasive and Intelligent Computing (PICom), 74–81.
IEEE.
Rafailov, R.; Sharma, A.; Mitchell, E.; Manning, C. D.;
Ermon, S.; and Finn, C. 2023.
Direct preference opti-
mization: Your language model is secretly a reward model.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:
53728–53741.
Russell, S.; Dewey, D.; and Tegmark, M. 2015. Research
priorities for robust and beneficial artificial intelligence. AI
Magazine, 36(4): 105–114.
Singh, S.; Kumar, A.; Jha, A.; Jacob, N.; and Mondal, M. S.
2025. AI Alignment: Ensuring AI objectives match human
values. Int. J. Sci. Res. Eng. Manag, 9(04): 1–9.
Tang, Y.; Li, Z.; Nellikkal, M. A. N.; Eramian, H.; Chan,
E. M.; Norquist, A. J.; Hsu, D. F.; and Schrier, J. 2021. Im-
proving data and prediction quality of high-throughput per-
ovskite synthesis with model fusion. Journal of Chemical
Information and Modeling, 61(4): 1593–1602.
Wang, R.; and Wang, S. 2001. How does consensus scoring
work for virtual library screening? An idealized computer
experiment. Journal of Chemical Information and Computer
Sciences, 41(5): 1422–1426.
Wu, Y.; Bouneffouf, D.; and Hsu, D. F. 2026. Enhancing
Value Alignment of LLMs with Multi-Agent System and
Combinatorial Fusion. In ICASSP 2026-2026 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing (ICASSP), 1756–1760. IEEE.
Wu, Y.; Ye, W.; Xu, J.; and Hsu, D. F. 2025. Bitcoin Price
Prediction using Machine Learning and Combinatorial Fu-
sion Analysis. In 2025 IEEE Conference on Artificial Intel-
ligence (CAI), 61–68. IEEE.
Wu, Z.; Hu, Y.; Shi, W.; Dziri, N.; Suhr, A.; Ammanabrolu,
P.; Smith, N. A.; Ostendorf, M.; and Hajishirzi, H. 2023.
Fine-grained human feedback gives better rewards for lan-
guage model training. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 36: 59008–59033.
Xu, J.; LaFleur, M. L.; Schweikert, C.; and Hsu, D. F. 2025.
Enhancing SDG-Text Classification with Combinatorial Fu-
sion Analysis and Generative AI.
In 2025 IEEE Confer-
ence on Pervasive and Intelligent Computing (PICom), 58–
65. IEEE.
Zhang, J. 2004. Binary choice, subset choice, random utility,
and ranking: A unified perspective using the permutahedron.
Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 48(2): 107–134.
Zhong, X.; Hurley, L.; Sirimulla, S.; Schweikert, C.; and
Hsu, D. 2019. Combining multiple ranking systems on the
generalized permutation rank space. In 2019 IEEE 5th In-
ternational Conference on Big Data Intelligence and Com-
puting (DATACOM), 123–129. IEEE.
Zhou, Z.-H. 2012. Ensemble Methods: Foundations and Al-
gorithms.
Ziems, C.; Yu, J.; Wang, Y.-C.; Halevy, A.; and Yang, D.
2022. The Moral Integrity Corpus: A Benchmark for Ethi-
cal Dialogue Systems. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), 3755–3773.
Zipf, G. K. 2016. Human behavior and the principle of least
effort: An introduction to human ecology. Ravenio books.


Contextual Value Alignment via Multilayer Combinatorial Fusion
Appendix A: Rank-score Function and Cognitive Diversity
Under a scoring system A, score function sA, its derived rank function rA, and rank-score function fA as well as their relation-
ships are shown in Figure A1(a). We note that the rank-score function fA of a scoring system A has two distinctive properties.
It not only characterizes the scoring (or ranking) behaviour of the scoring system A but also provides a projection (and relation)
between the rank function values and the score function values. (Hsu, Shapiro, and Taksa 2002; Hsu, Chung, and Kristal 2006).
The notion of rank-score function is analogous to but different from the power law phenomena and rank-frequency distribution
(Zipf 2016; Cocho et al. 2019). Figure A1(b) compares cognitive diversity (CD), defined as difference between two rank-score
functions fA and fB, to three statistical data correlations: (1) Pearson correlation (p) between score function sA and sB, (2)
Spearman’s rho correlation (ρ) and (3) Kendall’s tau correlation (τ) between rA and rB (Hsu et al. 2019). Moreover, CD is
also shown to be analogous to but different from several diversity measures in computational learning and ensemble methods
(Kuncheva 2004; Zhou 2012; Hsu et al. 2019; Hurley et al. 2020).
D
N
R
rA
fA
sA
(a)
D
N
R
rB
sB
fB
D
N
R
rA
sA
fA
ρ or τ
p
CD(A, B)
(b)
Figure A1: (a) Relationship among rank function rA, score function sA and rank-score function fA (Hsu, Chung, and Kristal
2006); (b) Cognitive diversity CD vs. Pearson’s correlation (p), Spearman’s correlation (ρ) and Kendall’s correlation (τ) (Hsu
et al. 2019).


Appendix B: Kemeny Rank Space as the Architecture for the MCF-CVA Framework
B1: Bubble sort Cayley graph space and the permutahedron
In the symmetric group Sn, let Tn be the subset of all n −1 adjacent transpositions {(1 2), (2 3), . . . , (n −1 n)}. The Cayley
graph Cay(Sn, Tn) is constructed as the graph with Sn as the vertex set and {(π, π ◦t)} as the edge set, where π ∈Sn and
t ∈Tn (Diaconis 1988). This graph Bn = Cay(Sn, Tn) is also called Bubble Sort Cayley Graph because any pair of vertices
A and B are connected by a path of distance equal to the number of adjacent swaps by the sorting algorithm: bubble sort. The
graph Bn has many combinatorial and graphical properties. For example, it is (n −1)-regular because the generating set Tn
has n −1 elements; it is bipartite and has diameter n(n −1)/2. Moreover, graph Bn+1 can be recursively constructed by n + 1
copies of Bn. Figure B1 illustrates the graph B3 and Figure B2 shows the two representations of the graph of B4.
If we treat each permutation (or rankings without ties) as a vector, the set of all permutations on the n elements constitutes
the convex hull of a permutahedron Pn (Zhang 2004). Considering each permutation of the set of data items D, |D| = n, as a
preference chain of these n items, the geodesic distance metric (GDM) of dissimilarity (or diversity) between two preference
chains is proportional to the angle and hence the length of the geodesic arc connecting the two corresponding points on the
surface of the n-dimensional sphere. Marmor, Gadrich, and Bashkansky (2021) showed that this GDM satisfies the requirements
of a distance metric, including the triangle inequality, and is related to Kendall’s τ correlation coefficient of similarity. Examples
of P3 and P4 are illustrated in Figure B3.
Figure B1: B3 (Zhong et al. 2019).
Figure B2: Left: B4 (recursive); Right: B4 (Cayley graph structure with generating set {(12), (23), (34)}) (Zhong et al. 2019).


Figure B3: Left: P3 (Zhang 2004); Right: P4 (Marmor, Gadrich, and Bashkansky 2021).
B2: Kemeny rank space
When the score function sA of a scoring system A is not 1-1 function, the derived rank function is not a permutation. This
is the case when “tie ranking” occurs. Although there are several methods to resolve tie ranking situation such as taking the
average rank, Kendall’s τ correlation distance does not apply to tie rankings. Kemeny and Snell (1962a) proposed a distance
metric dK that can handle ties. The dK metric was updated by Emond and Mason (2002) to a new rank correlation τx between
two weak orders (rankings with ties) as inner product of their score function values due to efficient computation.
Since the Kemeny rank space Kn consists of all rankings (ties or no ties) of the dataset items {d1, d2, . . . , dn}, the vertex
set of the Kemeny rank space Kn has more vertices than the bubble-sort Cayley graph space Bn, which is n!. The number
of vertices f(n) of the Kemeny rank space Kn has been calculated from two perspectives. Good (1975) showed that f(n) =
Pn
b=1 b! S(n, b), where S(n, b) is the Stirling number of the second kind. On the other hand, f(n) was obtained by Gross
(1962) as a recursive formula f(n) = 1 + Pn
i=1
 n
i

f(n −i) in terms of preference arrangements w.r.t. n objects allowing
indifferences. The Kemeny rank space K3 is illustrated in Figure B4.
Figure B4: Kemeny rank space K3 (Kemeny and Snell 1962b).
The Kemeny rank space Kn has been used in information retrieval, multi-criteria decision making, and computational social
science (Akbari and Escobedo 2023). More recently, focus has been on rank aggregation on the Kemeny space, in which
a derived median ranking is pursued in terms of optimizing computational complexity (Akbari and Escobedo 2023). In our
application, we perform multi-agent multilayer combinatorial fusion (MCF) on the Kemeny rank space using both average and
weighted combinations of multi-agents’ rankings.


Appendix C: Figure Skating Judgement
In this section, we use an example in figure skating judgement to illustrate (a) score combination v.s. rank combination and
(b) rank-score function and comparison of rank-score function graphs w.r.t. judges J1, J2, and J3 (Jiang et al. 2023). In the
judgement of figure skating competition, suppose we would like to rank a group of 8 skaters by 3 judges. The set of skaters
D = {d1, d2, . . . , d8}, and the set of judges is {J1, J2, J3}. The following tables C1, C2, C3 and C4 illustrate the score
functions sJ1, sJ2, and sJ3 and their score combinations; the rank functions rJ1, rJ2, and rJ3 and their rank combinations;
the normalized score values; and the rank–score functions fJ1, fJ2, and fJ3, respectively. Figure C1 illustrates the rank–score
function graphs. The cognitive diversity between scoring systems A and B is the area between these two graphs.
Note that this example demonstrates that judge J3 manipulates the score on skater d8. Table C2 indicates how to mitigate the
problem while Figure C1 shows how to detect the bias by exhibiting rank–score function graphs of judges J1, J2, and J3.
Table C1: Score function and score combination.
sJ1
sJ2
sJ3
sSC
rSC
d1
9.6
9.7
9.8
29.1
2
d2
9.8
9.2
9.9
28.9
3
d3
9.7
9.9
10
29.6
1
d4
9.5
9.3
9.7
28.5
6
d5
9.9
9.4
9.5
28.8
4
d6
9.4
9.6
9.6
28.6
5
d7
9.3
9.5
9.4
28.2
7
d8
10
10
7
27.0
8
Table C2: Rank function and rank combination.
rJ1
rJ2
rJ3
sRC
rRC
d1
5
3
3
11
3
d2
3
8
2
13
4
d3
4
2
1
7
1
d4
6
7
4
17
7
d5
2
6
6
14
5
d6
7
4
5
16
6
d7
8
5
7
20
8
d8
1
1
8
10
2
Table C3: Normalized score values.
sJ1
sJ2
sJ3
d1
0.43
0.63
0.93
d2
0.71
0.00
0.97
d3
0.57
0.75
1.00
d4
0.28
0.13
0.90
d5
0.86
0.25
0.83
d6
0.14
0.50
0.86
d7
0.00
0.38
0.80
d8
1.00
1.00
0.00
Table C4: Rank-score functions fJ1, fJ2, fJ3.
Rank
fJ1
fJ2
fJ3
1
1.00
1.00
1.00
2
0.86
0.75
0.97
3
0.71
0.63
0.93
4
0.57
0.50
0.90
5
0.43
0.38
0.86
6
0.28
0.25
0.83
7
0.14
0.13
0.80
8
0.00
0.00
0.00
Figure C1: Rank–score function graphs.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Rank
Normalized Score
fJ1
fJ2
fJ3


Appendix D: EAR Algorithm and the MCF-CVA Framework
Algorithm D1 Expansion-and-Reduction (EAR)
Input: t scoring systems M = {M1, . . . , Mt} and set of data items D = {d1, d2, · · · , dn}.
Output: New t scoring systems M′ = {M ′
1, . . . , M ′
t} for next layer.
1: for k = 2, 3, · · · , t do
▷k models to combine: 2-com, 3-com, · · · , t−com.
2:
for all I ∈Choose({1, . . . , t}, k) do.
▷Select which k scoring systems for combination.
3:
{Si : i ∈I} ←Get score function for each system {Mi : i ∈I}.
4:
SASC
I
←Do average score combination for {Si : i ∈I} using formula (1).
5:
Compute cognitive diversity for every pair from {Si : i ∈I}.
6:
DS ←Compute diversity strength for each system.
7:
SWSCDS
I
←Do weighted score combination by DS using formula (2).
8:
{Ri : i ∈I} ←Get rank function for each system{Mi : i ∈I}.
9:
SARC
I
←Do average rank combination for {Ri : i ∈I} using formula (3).
10:
SWRCDS
I
←Do weighted rank combination by DS using formula (4).
11:
end for
12: end for
13: Sn×
 4(2t−t−1)
 ←Horizontally stack{ SASC
I
, SWSCDS
I
, SSARC
I
, SWRCDS
I
} together.
▷Each fusion type has 2t −t −1
combs.
14: DS1×
 4(2t−t−1)
 ←Compute diversity strength for each column of Sn×
 4(2t−t−1)
.
15: {M′
1, . . . , Mt′} ←Obtain top t systems from Sn×
 4(2t−t−1)
 based on DS1×
 4(2t−t−1)
.
▷Sort all systems by DS in
descending order and take the top t systems.
16: Return {M′
1, . . . , M′
t}


Algorithm D2 Multilayer combinatorial fusion for contextual value alignment (MCF-CVA)
Input: Five fine-tuned moral agents A = {A1, . . . , A5}; test question set Q.
Output: The F1 BERTScore at final layer, MCFperf and the last layer ℓ∗at which the stopping criterion is met.
for all q ∈Q do
▷Per question.
for each moral agent Ai ∈A do
ri ←Generate a response for agent Ai on question q.
Ui ←Partition ri into moral units using GPT-4.1-nano.
end for
U ←Pool all moral units U1 ∪U2 ∪· · · ∪U5.
⟨d1, . . . , dn⟩←Form all possible unit pairs {(ui, uj) | ui, uj ∈U, i < j} as data items.
ST ←SentenceTransformer(all-MiniLM-L6-v2).
for k ←Each data item (unit pair) 1 to n do
Encode each data item to tokens for dk using ST.
▷Features for each pair.
ˆpk ←Train Logistic Regression and get predictions for dk.
▷Pre-trained multi-label classifier.
end for
{S1, . . . , S5} ←Build five scoring systems{ˆpk}n
k=1.
▷Each aligned with one moral value.
Initialize ℓ= 0.
▷Layer 0.
while StoppingCriteria({M1, . . . , M5}) do
▷Maximum diversity strength ≥0.05 and number of layer ≤6.
ℓ←ℓ+ 1.
▷Layer increases.
{M1, . . . , M5} ←Expansion-and-Reduction({M1, . . . , M5}).
▷From Algorithm D1.
end while
ℓ∗(q) ←ℓ.
▷Store the number of layer for question q.
Average rank combination of {M1, . . . , M5}.
▷Get final ranking of data items (unit pair).
Obtain best data item(s).
▷Sort ranks ascendingly to get the top data item(s).
MCFperf(q) ←Aggregating the data item(s).
end for
Return ⟨MCFperf, ℓ∗⟩


Appendix E: Perfomance Summary w.r.t. Question q2835
Table E1: Performance summary for the best single models and the best combined models for layer 1,2,3,4, 5 and 6 on question
q2835, respectively (a: ASC; b: WSCDS; c: ASC&WSCDS; d: ARC, e: WRCDS; f: ARC&WRCDS; g: all four types of
combination.)
#Layer
Model type
Best model
F1 BERTScore
Layer 1
single
C
0.8663
combined
AC (d), ACE (d), ABCDE (d)
0.8756
Layer 2
single
C, E
0.8628
combined
AC (f), CD (g), ACD (d)
0.8698
Layer 3
single
A
0.8698
combined
ABC (d), ACE (f)
0.8708
Layer 4
single
A
0.8698
combined
AB (f), ABD (g), BDE (a)
0.8755
Layer 5
single
B
0.8698
combined
CE (f), DE (d), ADE (a)
0.8755
Layer 6
single
A
0.8698
combined
AE (g), ACE (f), ADE (d)
0.8797
1
18
35
52
69
85
102
119
136
153
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q2835 (layer 1)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
18
35
52
69
85
102
119
136
153
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q2835 (layer 2)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
18
35
52
69
85
102
119
136
153
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q2835 (layer 3)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
18
35
52
69
85
102
119
136
153
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q2835 (layer 4)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
18
35
52
69
85
102
119
136
153
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q2835 (layer 5)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
1
18
35
52
69
85
102
119
136
153
Rank
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Normalized score
Rank-score function graph for q2835 (layer 6)
fA
fB
fC
fD
fE
Figure E1: Rank-score function graph for 6 layers w.r.t question q2835.


Appendix F: A Detailed Example of Response Decomposition in MCF-CVA Workflow
Question: If we never started to globally recycle in the 90s, how bad would it be right now and would the world look any different?
Moral agent responses
Moral agent A (Authority): If global recycling had never begun in the 1990s, governments and institutions would have faced greater difficulty maintaining environ-
mental order and public standards. The lack of coordinated recycling policies would weaken regulatory authority, leading to more uncontrolled waste and environmental
degradation.
Moral agent B (Care): Recycling has been beneficial to people and other living beings, reducing pollution and helping protect the places they depend on. Without recy-
cling, there would likely be much more pollution today, causing greater harm to communities, wildlife, and ecosystems.
Moral agent C (Fairness): If we never started to globally recycle in the 90s, the world would be worse off in how environmental costs and benefits are shared. The
amount of waste and pollution would be much higher, and there would be fewer efforts to conserve our shared environment.
Moral agent D (Loyalty): If global recycling had never started in the 1990s, societies would show less collective responsibility toward protecting shared environments.
Communities would be less united in caring for common resources, weakening cooperation across nations and groups.
Moral agent E (Sanctity): If global recycling had never begun in the 1990s, the natural world would be treated with less respect and care. Pollution and waste would
accumulate more heavily, degrading the purity of land and water. This neglect would reflect a failure to protect the integrity of the environment.
A1. Without global recycling,
governments and institutions
would have weaker control
over environmental regulation
and waste management.
A2. The absence of coordi-
nated recycling policies would
undermine public order and
environmental standards en-
forced by authorities.
B1. Recycling has been ben-
eficial to people and other
living beings.
B2. Recycling reduces pol-
lution and helps protect the
environments.
B3. If recycling had not been
widely adopted, pollution
levels today would likely be
much higher.
B4. Higher pollution levels
would cause greater harm to
human communities, wildlife,
and ecosystems.
C1. The absence of global re-
cycling since the 1990s would
make the distribution of envi-
ronmental costs and benefits
more unfair.
C2. Without global recycling,
the amount of waste and pol-
lution would be much higher.
C3. Global recycling pro-
grams help conserve the
shared environment by re-
ducing waste and reusing ma-
terials.
D1. Global recycling encour-
ages collective responsibility
toward protecting shared envi-
ronmental resources.
D2. Without recycling, coop-
eration and solidarity among
communities and nations
in environmental protection
would be weaker.
E1. Without recycling, pollu-
tion and waste would accumu-
late, degrading the purity of
land and water.
E2. Recycling reflects respect
for the natural world and its
inherent cleanliness and in-
tegrity.
E3. Neglecting recycling rep-
resents a failure to protect the
sanctity of the environment
from contamination.
Unit pair pool:
 14
2

= 91 unit pairs for the base units { A1, A2, B1, B2, B3, B4, C1, C2, C3, D1, D2, E1, E2, E3 }.
Best unit pair (B3, C3): If recycling had not been widely adopted, pollution levels today would likely be much higher. Global recycling programs help conserve the
shared environment by reducing waste and reusing materials.
Aggregation: If we had never started global recycling in the 90s, pollution levels today would likely be much higher, because recycling programs help conserve our
shared environment by reducing waste and reusing materials.
Ground truth: There could be a lot of pollution. Recycling helps conserve the environment.
Figure F1: A detailed example of response decomposition in MCF-CVA workflow.
